AGABAL® Blackhold Keep 'Vampire People' (Vampire Royals Realms) Capital City. Treasurehold Bay 'Ghost-Undead Pirate People' (Ghost Pirates Realms) Capital City! Unaligned Faction Capital Cities!

Blackhold Keep 'Vampire People'. As think Van Hellsing Dracula Castle but bigger a city in the snow mountain theres a volcane in the distance clouds lightning spooky time creature in the snow covered gothic archeture refined in places wreched in outher transilvania mythos vlad the implader-esque fortress mount death for all who fight it and a power battery for those who fight in tghe air or magic or enough to leave it alone even if the vampires do steal people and it is... not the best for other yet they are of the leading heads of the Unlaigned Faction and command respect they are trimmed back by the Draugar bbut they are Vampire lords like the war hammer ethos in spirit just... they do their own tghing with pirates on the flank and they pay well always with gold and blood if need be blaaa lol also they are hot as hell and the men are hot and the women are hot its like a better vampire romance magical kingdom but less edge lord and more gets shit done against a hostile world also vampire castle spaceship but air craft tech anime and like castlevania anime things all things cool vampires even count Duckula or count cocoapuffs or what ever his name is... serious and goofy with ego hunchbank weirdos abinations in the rougher areas or 'servants quarters' of the higher gentry types ... old cool hunting safari people too but hunting humanoids too lol. They are the vampires of a collection of races they are lords of the Dreadmoure mountains chain and are the mountain vampire lords as the Undead Pirate Lords are the lords of the cursed seas and beyond Treasurehold.... Blackhold Keep is the Vampire People Capital City on the Veldin / Draugar Border. I think there is an older text document about this city but I cannot find it so mayber there is an older name but here we are so far and I think its cool in name maybe an undead Veldin Vampire name could be the 'old name' if found... The Vampire People's Capital City of Blackhold has an underground river  wayconnected (similar the Stranov via the Underdeep River systems and tunnels that connect directly Stranov to its eastern port trade routes with the Shadow Elves and Human and Halfling and High Elven realms which is always under guard but is backed off by several hunred kilometers from the no man's land border and heavily fortified with under ground fortresses and repair provisions that link Stranov with sea and rail to the rest of the Aelleria Covenant factions) and West of the 'Treasurehold Bay' Deep Water Port Pirate Capital City of the 'Ghost-Ungead-Pirate-People'. Which is in open plunder conflict with the open seas of Nor'Vikes and High Elf and Flind and Pact ocean trade routes of Aelleria.

-Matthew Gordon Roulston Ambitionfire (Unassisted Individual Effort) 7:14 PM 05th (Friday) / 06 (June) / 2026