Also in an odd overlap of interests I was out clearing the yard and the trail leading up up to the top road here to haphazardly 'field test' how actual tools / weapons work in practice. What I was looking for was a bunch of ratios of damage vs. 'handling' and to what physically contributes to a person inflicting damage with a tool / weapon. I used the machete and this shovel / spade that has a half circle for a blade as an axe. I found out a way that one could more or less replicate the process of wielding melee tools / weapons with what limited assets I have in Unity3d. Basically what it would look like in Unity3D (for a first set of projects) would be a sort of melee choice of how to fight. As in theorized a system to roughly translate melee combat into unity revolving around: Fast  yet lightly damaging attacks. Balanced yet average  damaging attacks, Forceful yet heavily damaging attacks. I also found out that real life weapon handling and potential damage could be roughly simulated via a sort of damage type and weapon handling bias with a fatigue attribute also to be factored in. Also weapon attack animations could be chosen by the player as a sort of 'ability' (like mount and blade but with more options). For example a realistic poleaxe designed for two handed operation would offer the wielder relatively high potential crushing and cutting damage with relatively poor piercing damage without the weapon having a significant point affixed to its business end. Also such a poleaxe would have poor one handed operation statistics (all damage would be relatively low and the fatigue rating would be very very high with limited attack animations animations to boot. Although it would have relatively average fast attack damage and pretty good balanced attack attack damage ratios with manageable fatigue penalties. Although the heavy / forceful attacks would have the most damage potential, although if used exclusively they will offer less damage per ~hour of combat than would using a balance attack strategy. The reach also granted by the poleaxe's length would offer an attack bias for a fair distance in melee compared to the wielder vs. a shorter two handed weapon such as a maul and or sledge hammer for example. This length of the weapon could be quite a problem in doors / in close combat even with a choked weapon attack animation set being used; although with sufficient skill the range can offer a defensive bonus to the wielder in relatively open spaces. A Machete or short sword on the other hand would excel within close quarters with a strong damage bias towards fast and balanced piercing and cutting attacks. Such a weapon could be used in a two-handed fashion although the weapon would offer only a slight potential damage increase with many handling / attack animation disadvantages. There would be no 'does x damage per hit'. It would be two handed / one handed weapon damages with fast, balanced and forceful attacks with different damage types given a realistic weapon bias / restrictions to. For example a wooden hammer cannot realistic slash at all etc. Also I refined a character's attributes down into six core attributes: Strength, Agility, Constitution, Perception, Intelligence and Charisma. Also I defined the absolute maximum (god-like) limit of these attributes to 150 with a average limit of 108. This system is based of of Baldur's Gate's system although refreshed with more concepts and with more variation in-between Baldur's Gate attribute system of 25 maximum (god like) and 18 average limit. 25 x 6 = 150, 18 x 6 = 108. I like lower numbers although I felt as if the Baldur's gate numbers were too low and restricted greater detail of character attributes. Also I removed Wisdom and Dexterity for the Baldur's Gate (which are replaced by Perception and Agility respectively). I felt that the attribute of Wisdom is the know-how of when to do something (player and A.I. controlled) and not a skill or trait that should be measured as an attribute akin to intellect (knowing how to perform an action e.g. remember a spell vs. Wisdom knowing when to cast the spell). Also Dexterity is technically by definition limited to mostly movements of the hands and arms and does not encompass the myriad of movement attributes as defined by Agility (dexterity can be a child of Agility). Anyway that is that WALL OF TEXT completed X.X! -Matthew Gordon Roulston 5:50 PM 31/07/2016