Brawndew, Cave Tree, Titanwood, Hammer Cave, Gondola Water Wheels.

Matthew — 17:47Sunday, 5 July 2026 17:47
Brawndew a strong magical dew drink for RPG that gives strength and power when consumed and can be replenished refined with tree caregiver forestry live wood druids elves and the forest creatures sort. Like Mountaindew but can be magical and glowing if very pure and or refined and the bigger the tree the better and different flovours of the fruit tree also in a big cornucopia ecosystem effect and dew brewing.
Cave Tree like a barrow downs start but a big tree that grows naturally and or super naturally like the elves and super fast wild magic grow like in Warcraft 3 with the night elves and of lord of the rings with lothlorien elf forest city and the titan wood or giant trees grow so fast that it can be heard at times of the earth up heaving from the roots and the roots can be so big they are hollow and start or break into cave systems that can be expanded like elves and sahshahevas people and gems in the trees from the energy and the growth and minerals and clumps and nodes and replenishable resources that are collected inside and like ants and plants gives a resource to the caretakers for a symbiotic relationship like bees and flowers and pollen and nectar and honey. 
Titanwood. 3.21 times the size of the largest trees ever in history and in potential as effective maximum dimensions.
Hammer Cave 'under ground cave trees or caves made by titan trees that can be made into from the surface like opening up the tree root logs to reveal a hidden gallery filled with dead wood that can be cleared like 'hammer caves'.
Phytomining Tree Cave
Titan Tree with hollow center like a well or a camel's water reservoir that goes into the earth.
Wild magic tree that super fast grows like dinosaurs forests with twice oxygen as current day.

[17:47]Sunday, 5 July 2026 17:47
Gondola Water Wheels. Gondola Rivendell Rivendale Riverdale water wheel power gondola line back and forth transportation over waterfalls and elevators ski lift lines both ways round and one way zip lines with return rope and or omniside controls with linkages and belt drives and 1700's, 1850's technology.
[17:48]Sunday, 5 July 2026 17:48
---------------
Thundersteel Blunderbuss
Thunderwood Maul

-Matthew Gordon Roulston Ambitionfire 5:55 PM 05th (Sunday) / 07 (July) / 2026