Divine Energy Worlds

The Creator World (Center Leading Force)

Khronus - Grey Arcane Energy World



The Numina Worlds (Orbits Around The Center Leading Force)

Suun - Ash Arcane Energy World

Ohnu - White Arcane Energy World

Rhoh - Soot Arcane Energy World

Khon - Black Arcane Energy World



The Gods and Goddesses Worlds (Orbits Around The Numina Worlds, Each World at equal speed to the Numina Worlds but with a longer orbit of travel and thus a longer duration for a complete orbit. The Gods and Goddesses orbit once completely around the Numina Worlds for every two Numina Worlds orbits around the Center Leading Force of the Creator World of Khronus.)

Kael'los - Orange Furore Energy World

Dae'aldon - Yellow Light Energy World

Aethia - Green Wild Energy World

Aithyrios - Aqua Order Energy World

Palosa - Blue Gloam Energy World

Voezeithious - Purple Dark Energy World

Vlad'sithian - Pink Entropy Energy World

Kh'thulis - Red Chaos Energy World



The Divine Energy Worlds roughly create a flattened cone with a moderate 22.5 degree angle of slope away from the center. The head on image of the combined full image of the Divine Energy Worlds is that of the Jewel of AGABAL. The Planet of AGABAL cannot directly see the Jewel of AGABAL nor can the Jewel of AGABAL directly see the Planet of AGABAL for each world is the Divine Home World of the respective Divine Ruling Powers. Each Divine Energy World borders another Divine Energy World roughly. Yet they cannot directly see one another and each world has an edge and nothingness around it. If one were to fall off they would be lost until recovered. There is an all encompassing edge border to the nothingness. Yet it is a sort of portal to the center of the Divine World; a confinement barrier created by Khronus. The Jewel of AGABAL is roughly the physical size of the planet of AGABAL in surface area and as deep as the hardened mantle and as high as the upper atmosphere of the planet of AGABAL. Yet roughly flat and on a moderate slope with the upper edge of each radiating Divine Energy World closest to the Prime Leading Force with a slight isolated central rise of 11.25 degrees of the most prominent highest point creating a slight half conical mountain range with the edges starting at the inner topmost edges and radiating out in a circle in each respective Divine Energy World with the peak of each such mountain ranges being the foundation of the Palace of the Divine Ruling Powers of which the Ruling Power's Throne is perched atop the absolute highest point. The Universe of AGABAL is located next to yet directly invisible via being within a different dimension right where the Center Leading Force if inverted world be located.

-Matthew Gordon Roulston 6:51 PM 08th / 05 (May) / 2021