Full Tilt Super War (Card Game)[AGABAL Card Game Full Tilt Super War]

1 deck of playing cards (or 2 decks for 8 suits). [8 suits 2 cards and 8 suited jokers is AGABAL Card Game Full Tilt Super War.]

Highest number of card wins (optional suits count as numbers, jack, queen king in order etc.) Ace is 11 or 1 Joker is 1, needs 1 joker per suit if using joker. Joker counts as 1 if Ace is 11 or Ace is highest card. Rule variant: only same suit cards can be combined.

Each player draw 2 cards each turn (at least 2 players possibly more).

Players then pick what hidden cards in their hand to place face up when ready to go / shoot.

Players must say ready then go / shoot and lay down 1 or 2 cards from their hand (or 0 if they run out of cards vs a player with cards left [automatic round win(s) for the player with cards remaining]. (Players can elect to just say go and lay cards at the same time to make things faster).

Player with the larger combined card number wins (face cards can be 10's or go higher face card beats lower, but this is optional).

If there is a tie for highest card hand combination (what ever rules for values used) this is then a 'Full Tilt' and the tieing players must go again and draw 2 cards if there are cards left to draw from the deck in the center put cards down from their hand (this can be 0, 1 or 2 cards depending on if they have cards left but must be at least 1 card if they have 1 card left) bigger combined card hand number wins and will keep going until their is a winner. Or the cards run out. If the cards run out at a draw the original card holders get back their cards and the game is counted to see who won.

When a card hand is won by a player they take all the cards in the round and add them to their winnings pile (optionally face up) to count when the game is over.

Win conditions:

The player with the biggest stack of cards and or the highest card value. If the players don't want to count then thicker deck wins. If both decks are the same thickness then a full tilt super war happens and cards are counted for value of the decks. Bigger number wins. There can be win conditions of highest value deck wins always but it takes longer to count and is less immediate then messuring who's got the biggest deck. If there is a tie in card value / bigger deck then optionally another game is made to break the tie in overtime and it keeps going until there is a winner.

-Matthew Gordon Roulston (With Cole William Forbes) 11:44 PM 24th / 04 (April) / 2025