List Of Legendary Creatures By Type



    Article
    Talk

    Read
    View source
    View history

Page semi-protected
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

This list of legendary creatures from mythology, folklore and fairy tales is sorted by their classification or affiliation. Creatures from modern fantasy fiction and role-playing games are not included.
This is a dynamic list and may never be able to satisfy particular standards for completeness. You can help by editing the page to add missing items, with references to reliable sources.
Animals, creatures associated with
Arthropods
See also: Category:Mythological arthropods

    Karkinos (Greek) – Crab who attacked Heracles and was killed, becoming the constellation of Cancer.
    Nerites (Greek) – Minor sea deity turned into a shellfish by jealous gods.
    Ōmukade (Japanese) – Giant man-eating centipede, but weak to human saliva.
    Zaratan (Arabic) – Giant crab mistaken for an island.

Insects
Main article: Insects in mythology
See also: Category:Mythological insects

    Adze (Ewe) – Vampiric entity that becomes a firefly to fly through keyholes and suck blood.
    Aristaeus (Greek) – Giant who was transformed into a dung beetle.
    Kaggen (San) – Trickster god who takes the form of a praying mantis, louse, or caterpillar.
    Carbuncle (Chilote) – One of its many descriptions is a greenish-red fiery light reminiscent of fireflies
    Cerambus (Greek) – Demigod turned into a wood-gnawing beetle.
    Gallnipper (African-American) – Mosquitos so large their bones can be used for fencing.
    Gold-digging ant (Greek) – Reported by Herodotus to live in either Ethiopia or the Indian subcontinent.
    Ītzpāpālōtl (Aztec) – Death goddess with a skeletal head and butterfly wings.
    Khepri (Ancient Egyptian) – Beetle who pushes the sun.
    Melissa (Greek) – Nymph turned into a bee by Zeus.
    Mothman (American cryptid) – Man with moth wings and features.
    Myia (Greek) – Talkative girl transformed into a fly by the goddess Selene.
    Myrmecoleon (Christian) – Ant-lion.
    Myrmex (Greek) – Girl who stole the invention of the plow from Athena and was turned into an ant.
    Myrmidons (Greek) – Warriors created from ants by Zeus.
    Tithonus (Greek) – Prince who was transformed into a cicada.

Scorpions
See also: Scorpion goddess

    Hedetet (Ancient Egyptian) – Goddess depicted as having the head of a scorpion and nursing a baby.
    Isis (Ancient Egyptian) – Goddess that sometimes takes the form of a scorpion.
    Pabilsag (Babylonian) – Sagittarius-like creature with scorpion tail.
    Scorpio (Greek) – Scorpion that killed Orion.
    Scorpion man (Babylonian) – Protector of travellers.
    Selket (Ancient Egyptian) – Scorpion death/healing goddess.
    Xiezijing (Chinese) – Scorpion Demoness capable of harming both Sun Wukong and the Buddha.

Spiders
See also: Category:Mythological spiders

    Aiapæc (Moce) – Creator god, often seen as a spider with an anthropomorphic face and jaguar fangs.
    Anansi (West African) – Trickster spider.
    Arachne (Greek) – Weaver cursed into a spider.
    Areop-Enap (Nauru) – Creator god, made the earth and sky from a giant clam shell.
    Chaffee Spider (American cryptid) – Large cave spider kept as pest control and guard dogs by early settlers in Chaffee, Colorado, before mysteriously vanishing off the face of the earth.
    Christmas Spider (Ukrainian) – Spider whose webs became the first tinsel on a tree.
    Djieien (Seneca) – Man-sized spider who survived most attacks because its heart was buried underground.
    Iktomi (Lakota) – Trickster spider. Also known in parts of the Rockies.
    Jorōgumo (Japanese) – Spider yokai that can appear as a beautiful woman.
    Phalanx (Greek) – Brother to Arachne in a variation of the story, also turned into a spider.
    Spider Grandmother (Native American) – Important figure across many North West Native American Cultures.
    Tsuchigumo (Japanese) – Shapeshifting giant spider.

Birds
See also: Category:Legendary birds

    Ababil (Islamic) – A miraculous bird.
    Adarna (Philippine) – Colorful bird with healing powers, puts people to sleep, and turns people into stone.
    Avalerion (English) – Eagle-like bird; only a single pair was said to live at any time.
    Alicanto (Chilean) – Bird with luminescent feathers which feeds on gold or silver.[1]
    Anqa (Arabian) – Large, mysterious, or fabulous female bird.
    Anzû (Mesopotamian) – Massive bird who can breathe fire and water.
    Bare-fronted Hoodwink (Cryptid) – Bird with the ability to be "almost seen", created to satirize birdwatchers.
    Caladrius (Roman) – White bird with healing powers.
    Chalkydri (Jewish) – Heavenly creatures of the sun.
    Chamrosh (Persian mythology) – Creature with the body of a dog, and the head and wings of a bird.
    Cinnamon bird (Greek) – Arabian bird in Greek mythology that builds nests out of cinnamon.
    Devil Bird (Sri Lankan) – Shrieking bird who predicts death.
    Gagana (Russian) – Miraculous bird with an iron beak and copper claws.
    Gandabherunda (Hindu) – Two-headed magical bird.
    Garuda (Hindu) – Known as the primordial bird and the progenitor of all birds; vehicle of Lord Vishnu.
    Hakawai (Māori) – Bird that was sometimes heard but not usually seen.
    Hudhud (Islamic) – Messenger to prophets.
    Jingwei (Chinese) – A bird who is determined to fill up the sea.
    Luan (Chinese) – A bird which carries a shield and tramples on snakes while wearing one on its breast.
    Minokawa (Philippine) – Giant, dragon-like bird.
    Nine-headed Bird (Chinese) – A totem creature, predecessor to the Fenghuang.
    Oozlum bird (English) – A satirical creature that flies in ever-decreasing circles until it disappears into its own backside.
    Pamola (Abenaki) – A bird/moose spirit who causes cold weather.
    Peng (Chinese) – An enormous bird transformed from a giant fish which flies over the great oceans.
    Phoenix (Greek) –
        Bennu (Egyptian) – self-creating bird deity.
        Chol (Biblical) – regenerative bird.
        Firebird (Slavic) – legendary bird with glowing eyes and feathers, brings misfortune if captured.
        Fenghuang (Chinese) – a phoenix who reigns over all other birds.
        Huma bird (Persian) – a bird that flies too high to be seen and never lands.
        Konrul and Toghrul (Turkic).
        Paskunji (Georgian/ Caucasus) phoenix like underworld dwelling bird. Kills the snakes on the path to the afterlife & aid heroes on quests.
        Vermilion Bird (Chinese)
    Piasa (Native American) – Based on monster depicted on Illinois rock painting near the Mississippi River.
    Qingniao (Chinese) – Blue or green messenger birds of the Queen Mother of the West.
    Ra (Ancient Egyptian) – Sun deity often depicted with falcon features.
    Rain Bird (Native American) – Bird who brought rain.
    Raróg (Slavic) – Fiery demon falcon.
    Roc (Arabian) – Enormous legendary bird of prey.
    Shangyang (Chinese) – Rainbird.
    Shedu (Mesopotamian) – Male counterpart to Lamassu.
    Simurgh (Persian) – Phoenix-like bird of enormous size and great longevity and wisdom.
    Stymphalian birds (Greek) – Man-eating birds.
    Thoth (Ancient Egyptian) – Ibis-headed god of the moon, wisdom, and art.
    Three-legged bird (various cultures).
    Thunderbird (Native American) – Legendary bird spirit that brings storms, found primarily among the cultures of the Pacific Northwest, but also the American Southwest, Great Lakes, and Great Plains.
    Turul (Hungarian) – Mythological bird of prey.
    Veðrfölnir (Norse) – Hawk that sits atop an eagle that rests atop the world tree, Yggdrasil.
    Vucub Caquix (Mayan) – Bird demon.
    Wampum Bird (Native American) – Giant heron with shell armor instead of feathers.
    Zhenniao (Chinese) – Poisonous bird.

Avian Humanoids
Main article: List of avian humanoids
See also: Category:Avian humanoids

    Alkonost (Slavic) – Female with body of a bird.
    Gamayun (Slavic) – Prophetic bird with woman's head.
    Gumyōchō (Yōkai) – Twin-headed human-bird.
    Harpy (Greek) – Ugly winged bird woman, steals food.
        Aello – Name meaning "storm".
        Ocypete – Name meaning "swift wing".
        Celaeno – Name meaning "the dark one".
        Podarge – Name meaning "fleet-footed".
    Horus (Ancient Egyptian) – Tutelary deity and god of the sky and kingship.
    Inmyeonjo (Korean) – Bird with a human face.
    Itsumade (Japanese) – Monstrous bird with a human face.
    Kalavinka (Buddhist) – Fantastical immortal creature with a human head and a bird's torso and long flowing tail.
    Karura (Japanese) – Divine creature with human torso and bird-like head.
    Kinnara (Buddhist) – Half-bird musicians.
    Lamassu (Mesopotamian) – Goddess with a human head, the body of a bull or a lion, and bird wings.
    Siren (Greek) – Bird-women known for their compelling singing.
        Achelois – Name meaning "she who drives away pain", surname for the daughters of Achelous.
        Aglaonoe – Daughter of Achelous and Terpsichore.
        Agalaope – Name meaning "with lambent voice", daughter of Achelous and Terpsichore.
        Leucosia – Name meaning "white", daughter of Achelous and either Melpomene or Terpsichore.
        Ligeia – Name meaning "clear-toned", daughter of Achelous and either Melpomene or Terpsichore.
        Parthenope – Name meaning "maiden-voiced", Daughter of Achelous and Terpsichore.
        Pisinoe – Daughter of Achelous and either Melpomene or Sterope.
        Thelxinoë – Name meaning "mind charming".
    Swan maiden (Multi-cultural) – Shapeshifts from human to swan.
    Tengu (Japanese) – Has human and bird characteristics, name means "dog".

Chickens
See also: Category:Mythological galliforms

    Alectryon (Greek) – Rooster charged with announcing the arrival of Helios.
    Basan (Japanese) – Fire-breathing chicken.
    Cockatrice – Chicken-headed dragon or serpent, visually similar to the Basilisk.
    Gallic rooster – Symbolic rooster used as an allegory for France.
    Gullinkambi – Rooster who lives in Valhalla in Norse mythology.
    Rooster of Barcelos – A mythological rooster from Portugal.
    Sarimanok (Philippine) – Legendary chicken of the Maranao people who originate from Mindanao.
    Víðópnir – Rooster that sits atop Yggdrasil in Norse mythology.

Corvids
Main article: Cultural depictions of ravens
See also: Category:Mythological corvids

    Badb (Irish) – War goddess who takes the form of a crow.
    Corone (Greek) – Woman turned into a crow to flee Poseidon.
    Huginn and Muninn (Norse) – Two ravens that serve as messengers.
    Kutkh (Indigenous Russian) – Raven spirit involved in the creation myth.
    Nachtkrapp (German) – Raven who kidnaps children out at night.
    Rainbow crow (Lenape (supposed)) – Crow who brought fire to earth.
    Raum (Demonology) – Demon crow and a great earl of Hell.
    Three-legged crow (East Asian) – Crow with three legs representing the sun.
        Yatagarasu (Shinto) – Three-legged crow.
    Tulugaak (Inuit) – Raven god and creator of light.
    Waang (Australian Aboriginal) – Trickster crow and culture hero.

Eagles
See also: Category:Mythological birds of prey

    Aethon (Greek) – Eagle tormentor of Prometheus.
    Griffin (Greek) – Guards treasure and priceless possessions.
    Hippogriff (Italian) – Winged horse with the head and upper body of an eagle.
    Huracán (Mayan) – Type of thunderbird that lives beneath the Gulf of Mexico. Etymological origin of "hurricane".
    Hræsvelgr (Norse) – Jötunn who takes the form of an eagle.
    Poukai (Māori) – Monstrous predatory bird, likely based on an extinct species.
    Shahbaz (Persian) – Eagle god who helped the Iranian peoples and guided the Faravahar to the Iranian lands.
    Triple-headed eagle (multi-cultural) –
    Wuchowsen - (Abenaki) One of the four wind spirits in Abenaki lore. Depicted as a giant eagle who lives atop a mountain.
    Ziz (Jewish) – Giant griffin.
    Zu (Mesopotamian) – Divine monster depicted as a lion-headed eagle.

Owls
See also: Category:Owls in culture

    Chickcharney (Bahamas) – Magical owl with powers over fate, sometimes encountered by travellers in pine forests.
    Nyctimene (Roman) – Princess transformed into an owl by Minerva.
    Owlman (English) – Owl-like humanoid compared to America's Mothman.
    Sirin (Slavic) – Birds with women's heads who lured men to their deaths.
    Strix (Greek) – Owl that ate human flesh.

Fish
See also: Category: Legendary fish

    Fish People
        Mermaid / Merman – half-human, half-fish (worldwide)
        Water spirit – (worldwide)
        Undine – water elementals in the alchemical writings of Paracelsus
    Abaia
    Ground Shark - man-eating mystery shark of the Timor Sea
    Gurangatch
    Hippocamp
    Ika-Roa
    Il Belliegha - (Malta) Eel like monster with a frog tongue and a hand on the tip of its tail that eats children who get too close to open wells
    Isonade
    Namazu
    Ningyo
    Kun
    Salmon of Wisdom
    Shachihoko (Japanese) – a creature with the head of a tiger and the body of a carp
    Mug-wamp - Canadian giant sturgeon monster said to inhabit Lake Temiskaming in Ontario. Name is of Native origin

Mammals
Aquatic and marine-based

    Aspidochelone (Greek) – Island sized whale mentioned in bestiaries.
    Bahamut (Arabic) – Whale monster whose body supports the earth. Word seems far more ancient than Islam and may have the same origin as the word Behemoth in modern Judeo-Christian lore.
    Bake-kujira (Japanese) – Ghost whale.
    Cetus (Greek) – A monster with the head of a boar or a greyhound, the body of a whale or dolphin, and a divided, fan-like tail.
    Devil Whale (English) – Whale capable of swallowing ships.
    Dobhar-chú (Scottish) – King otter.
    Encantado (Brazilian) – Shapeshifting trickster dolphins.
    Glashtyn (Celtic) – Horse goblin from the sea.
    Gveleshapi (Georgian) - Snake-whale monster associated with lakes, rivers and springs. Said to be causes of floods and other water related disasters.
    Lavellan (Scottish) – Water shrew or water vole with poisonous abilities, said to be able to injure cattle over a hundred feet away.
    Makara (Hindu mythology) – Half terrestrial animal in the frontal part (stag, deer, or elephant) and half aquatic animal in the hind part (usually of a fish, a seal, or a snake, though sometimes a peacock or even a floral tail is depicted).
    Sea goat (Greek) – Half goat, half fish.
    Selkie (Scottish) – Shapeshifting seal people.
    Water bull (Scottish) – Nocturnal amphibious bull.
    Water Horse – General name for mythical water dwelling horses of many cultures.
        Ceffyl Dŵr (Welsh) – Water horse.
        Each-uisge (Scottish) – Malevolent shapeshifting oceanic water horse.
        Enbarr (Irish) – Manann's horse, capable of traversing land and sea.
        Hippocampus (Greek) – Horse with a fish tail.
        Ichthyocentaurs (Greek) – Upper body of a man, the lower front of a horse, tail of a fish.
        Kelpie (Scottish) – Water horse.
        Morvarc'h (Breton) – Legendary horse that could gallop on the waves.
        Nixie (Germanic) – Shapeshifting water being, known for appearing as horses.
        Nuckelavee (Orcadian) – Skinless oceanic water horse with pestilent breath.
        Nuggle (Scottish) – Mischievous male water horse.
        Tangie (Scottish) – Shapeshifting sea water horse.

Bats
See also: Category:Bats in religion

    Balayang (Australian Aboriginal) – Bat-god and brother to Bunjil.
    Camazotz (Mayan) – Bat spirit and servant of the lords of the underworld.
    Leutogi (Polynesian) – Samoan princess rescued by bats.
    Minyades (Greek) – Three sisters who refused to take part in the worship of Dionysus, and turned into bats by Hermes.
    Tjinimin (Australian Aboriginal) – Ancestor of the Australian people.
    Vetala (Hindu) – Vampiric entity that takes over cadavers.

Carnivorans
Bears
See also: Category:Mythological bears

    Bjarndyrakongur (Icelandic) – King of bears. Stems from Polar Bear sightings in Iceland being extremely rare, but not unheard of. Has a shining horn on its head topped with a ball and red patches on cheeks.
    Bugbear (Celtic) – Child-eating hobgoblin.
    Callisto (Greek) – A nymph who was turned into a bear by Hera.
    Stiff-Legged Bear (Native American) – Gigantic, hairless bear monster in tribal folklore, predominantly Iroquoians and Algonquians, possibly inspired by mammoths.

Canines
See also: Category:Mythological canines

    Adlet (Inuit) – Tribe of hybrid dog people birthed from a woman who married her dog. Were banished for preying on humans.
    Akhlut (Inuit) – Wolf-orca hybrid monster that hunts on both land and sea.
    Amarok (Inuit) – Giant solitary wolf that hunts at night.
    Anubis (Egyptian) – Jackal-headed god associated with mummification and the afterlife.
    Aralez (Armenian) – Winged dogs that descend from heaven and resurrect fallen warriors by licking their wounds.
    Asena (Altai/Turkish) – She-wolf impregnated by mythical founder of a tribe called the Golturks. They came to Turkey from Altai in Siberia during the empire of Ghengis Khan.
    Axehandle hound (North American) – Axe-shaped dog that reputedly subsists on axe-handles left unattended.
    Black dog (British) – Also known as Barghest, Black Shuck, or Grim; associated with the Devil, Hellhound.
    Beast of Gévaudan (French) – Man-eating wolf, terrorized the province of Gévaudan.
    Carbuncle (Chilote) – One of its many descriptions is a small, luminescent dog.[2]
    Cerberus (Greek, Roman) – Multi-headed dog, guards the gates of the Underworld, son/brother of Orthrus.
    Chupacabra (Latin American) – Alleged creature reputed to attack and drink the blood of livestock, occasionally described with bat-like features. Sometimes thought to resemble, or mistaken for a hairless coyote.
    Cu Sith or Cusith (Irish, Scottish, Hebridean) – A hellhound, a highland harbinger of death.
    Crocotta – Mythical dog-wolf that can imitate human voices, supposedly found in India or Ethiopia.
    Cynocephaly – Humanoids with the head of a dog or jackal.
    Dogs of Actaeon (Greek) – Hunting dogs that turned on Actaeon after he was turned into a deer.
    Failinis (Irish) – Legendary hound with a number of abilities.
    Fenrir (Norse) – Monstrous wolf destined to kill Odin.
    Gelert (Welsh) – Dog killed out of error by Welsh King, thinking it had murdered his infant child.
    Hellhound (Worldwide) – Supernatural dogs, bringers of death.
    Huodou (Chinese) – a large black dog that can emit flames from its mouth.
    Hvcko Capko (Seminole) – Also Long Ears, Stinky Wolf. A horse sized wolf with extra large, pointed ears, a horse's tail and reeks of rot and death. Prolonged exposure to its stench causes deadly illness.
    Kludde (Belgium) – demon summoned from the ashes of witches taking the form of a black wolf with bat wings, a birds beak and bear claws. Has glowing eyes, shapeshifting abilities and great speed.
    Orthrus (Greek) – two headed dog, father/brother of Cerberus.
    Papa-mel or Papamel – Dog of the Amazonian Curupira.
    Penghou (Chinese) – tree spirit that appears like a black dog and tastes like dog-meat.
    Petitcrieu – Fairy dog in Tristan romance.
    Psoglav (Bosnia) – Humanoid monster with dog's head, horse's legs, one eye and iron teeth.
    Salawa – the "Typhonian Animal," a slender, vaguely canine-animal that is the totemic animal of Set.
    Sigbin (Philippine) – is a creature in Philippine mythology.
    Shug Monkey – dog/monkey creature found in Cambridgeshire (Britain).
    Tanuki (Japanese) – Japanese raccoon dog, legends claim is a shapeshifting trickster.
    Vǎrkolak, or "Vukodlak" (Slavic) – Undead vampire werewolf.
    Werewolf – human, shapeshifts to a wolf because of an affliction, lycanthrope (Worldwide).

Foxes
See also: Category:Mythological foxes

    Aguara (Chané) – Trickster fox associate with the constellation Scorpius.
    Amaterasu (Japanese) – Sun goddess who sometimes takes the form of a dragon-fox.
    Tulikettu (Finnish) – Fox with flaming fur, whose skin is said to be a safer alternative for lighting than fire. Catching on in a hunt will guarantee riches. Gives name to the northern lights.
    Huli jing (Chinese) – Fox spirits, like Fairies.
    Kitsune (Japanese) – Fox spirits, like Fairies.
    Kumiho (Korean) – Fox spirits, like Fairies.
    Sky Fox (mythology) (Chinese) – Celestial nine-tailed Fox Spirit that is 1,000 years old and has golden fur.

Felines
See also: Category:Mythological felines

    Bael (Demonology) – First king of Hell with three heads: a man, a toad, and a cat.
    Ball-tailed cat (North American) – a feline similar to a mountain lion, except with a long tail with a bulbous end used for striking its prey.
    Cactus cat (North American) – a feline of the American Southwest with hair-like thorns that intoxicates itself by the consumption of cactus water.
    Canaima (Mexico) – Term for a sort of were-jaguar. May be related to skinwalkers.
    Cat-sìth (Celtic mythology) – Spectral cat that haunts the Scottish Highlands.
    Cath Palug (Welsh) – Monstrous cat said to have killed 180 warriors.
    Carbuncle (Chilote) – One of its many descriptions is a cat with a luminescent chin.[3]
    Demon Cat (North American) – a ghost cat who is purported to haunt the government buildings of Washington, D.C.
    Kaibyō (Japanese) – Various forms of cat Yōkai.
        Bakeneko (Japanese) – Two-tailed cat yōkai.
        Kasha (Japanese) – Corpse stealing yōkai, sometimes originating as a cat.
        Nekomata (Japanese) – Cat yōkai from both mountains and domestic areas.
    Nue (Japanese) – Hybrid of monkey, tiger, tanuki and snake. Considered a yokai.
    Panther (Greek) – Wildcat with multicolored hide. Attracts prey with sweet smelling breath and is often ridden by and associated with the god, Dionysus.
    Pard (Greek) – Early Greek understanding of a leopard. It was also surmised that cheetahs were a hybrid of a lion and a pard, hence calling those leopards instead of what we now call leopards.
    Phantom cat, Alien Big Cat (Modern, Worldwide) – Wildcat that seems to appear far beyond its native range by unknown circumstance.
        Blue Mountains panther (Australian) – Alleged unknown wildcats sighted in Australia.
    Glawackus (American) – Hybrid bear-panther-lion monster that sounds like a hyena and can erase the memory of those who look into its eyes.
    Tyger (English) – Heraldic being that looked like a cross between a lion, horse and wolf, said to be red and speckled.
    Underwater panther (Native American) – Shapeshifting being known by many names among tribes in Eastern US.
    Vapula (European, Christian, Demonology) – A demon with insight into mechanics and science which takes a winged lion form.
    Vassoko (Africa, Chad) – Cat the size of a horse with long fangs and burning eyes. Always accompanied by an entourage of butterflies.
    Wampus cat (American) – Cat with six legs and a long tail; originally a man who was transformed into the creature by a curse .
    White Tiger (Chinese) – a Guardian Of The West cardinal point.
    Winged cat – Archaeological designation for depictions of any mythological creature that can fit that description.

Lions
See also: Category:Mythological lions

    Arimanius (Greek) – Minor lion-headed Greek god.
    Ammit (Egyptian) – Goddess with the forequarters of a lion, the hindquarters of a hippopotamus, and the head of a crocodile.
    Barong (Balinese) – Benevolent king of spirits.
    Beast of the First Kingdom (Christian) – A beast like a lion with eagle's wings seen in the Book of Revelations.
    Brunswick Lion (German) – Loyal companion of Henry the Lion after the two slew a dragon together.
    Chimera (Greek) .
    Chinese guardian lions (Chinese) – Statues depicted in pairs believed to be protectors.
        Komainu (Shinto).
        Shisa (Ryukyan).
        Sin-you (Japanese).
        Xiezhi (Chinese).
    Dawon (Tibetan) – Mount of the goddess Durga.
    Egyptian lion gods – Lions were a symbol of warfare and most all of these gods were warriors.
        Aker – Earth and underworld god.
        Ȧmi-Pe – A lion god.
        Apedemak – Depicted as a figure with a male human torso and a lion head.
        Bast – Lioness goddess of fertility and protection against disease.
        Hert-ketit-s.
        Ḥuntheth – A lioness goddess.
        Ipy (goddess) – Head and feet of a lion, body of a hippo, arms of a human.
        Maahes – Name means "he who is true beside her".
        Matit – A funerary cat goddess who had a cult center at Thinis.
        Mehit – Depicted as a reclining lioness with three bent poles projecting from her back.
        Menhit
        Pakhet
        Repyt
        Sekhmet – Warrior goddess as well as goddess of healing.
        Seret – A lioness goddess possibly originally from Libya.
        Shesmetet
        Taweret – Depicted as a hippopotamus with lion paws and crocodile tail.
        Tefnut –
        Tutu – Body of a striding, winged lion, the head of a human, other heads of hawks and crocodiles projecting from the body, and the tail of a serpent.
        Urit-en-kru – A lioness headed hippopatomus goddess.
    Griffin (Europe)
    Lamassu (Mesopotamian)
    Lampago (Heraldic) – Mythical beast in the form of a "man-tiger or man-lion"
    Leo (Greek) –
        Lion of Cithaeron (Greek)
        Nemean lion (Greek)
    Lion of Al-lāt (Arabian) – Lion icon of Al-Lat.
    Manticore (Persian)
    Manussiha (Burmese) – Statue with a human head and two lion hindquarters.
    Merlion (Singaporean) – Fish with a lion's head.
    Narasimha (Hindu) – Part-lion avatar of Vishnu.
    Nian (Chinese) – Flat-faced lion with the body of a dog and prominent incisors, warded away by New Year's celebrations.
    Nongshāba (Sanamahism) – Lion god who created the sun.
    Pixiu (Chinese) – Powerful, winged lions who protect Feng shui practitioners.
    Questing Beast (Arthurian) – Beast with the head and neck of a snake, the body of a leopard, the haunches of a lion, and the feet of a hart.
    Sea-lion (Heraldic) – A half-lion half-fish beast found in heraldry.
    Serpopard (Egyptian) – Lion/leopard body with a snake head.
    Sharabha (Hindu) – Part lion, part bird-beast, with eight legs.
    Simhamukha (Tibetan) – A wisdom dakini of the Dzogchen tradition with the head of a snow lion.
    Snow Lion (Tibetan) – Celestial animal of Tibet.
    Sphinx (Egyptian) –
        Criosphinx (Egyptian) – Ram-headed sphinx.
        Gopaitioshah (Persian) – Winged bull or lion with human face.
        Hieracosphinx (Egyptian) – Has the head of a hawk and the body of a lion.
    Stratford Lyon
    Tigris (Jewish) – Giant lion of the forest of Bei Ilai.
    Vaikuntha Chaturmurti (Hindu) – a four-headed aspect of the Hindu god Vishnu: a human head, a lion head, a boar head and a fierce head.
    Winged lion
    Yali (Hindu) – Portrayed with the head and the body of a lion, the trunk and the tusks of an elephant, and sometimes bearing equine features.
    Yaghūth – A god of the era of the prophet Noah.
    Yaldabaoth (Gnostic) – Lion-headed serpent god.

Hyenas

    Werehyena

Musteloids and non-hyena herpestoids

    Azeban
    Gef
    Ichneumon
    Kamaitachi
    Kushtaka (Tlingit) – shapeshifting "land otter man".
    Mujina
    Ramidreju
    Raijū

Procyonids

    Azeban – trickster raccoon spirit in Abenaki mythology

Marsupials
See also: Category:Mythological marsupials

    Drop bear
    Bunyip (Australian Aboriginal)

Primates
See also: Category:Mythological monkeys

    Agropelter – a beast that amuses itself by hurling twigs and tree branches at passersby (United States & Canada).
    Bigfoot or Sasquatch – Cryptid, animal of the Northwest (North America).
    Hibagon or Hinagon – ape-like, similar to Bigfoot, or the Yeti (Japan).
    Jué yuán – blue-furred man-sized rhesus monkey that abducts human women (China & Japan).
    Satori – mind-reading magical ape or monkey (Japan).
    Shōjō – anthropomorphic spirit, depicted as furred, somewhat confounded with orangutan (Japan).
    Shug Monkey – dog/monkey (Britain).
    Sun Wukong (proper name) – powerful warrior-magician in the form of a monkey who hatched from a stone egg (China).
    Vanara – humanoid apes or monkeys (India, Hindu).
    Yeren – man-monkey, cryptid hominid, resides in remote mountainous (China).
    Yeti – Abominable Snowman, ape-like cryptid similar to Bigfoot, that inhabits the Himalayas (Nepal, Tibet).
    Yowie – hominid said to live in the Australian wilderness, a cryptid similar to the Himalayan Yeti (Australia).

Rabbits and hares
See also: Category:Mythological rabbits and hares

    Al-Mi'raj – rabbit with unicorn horn (Arabia).
    Jackalope – (North America).
    Moon rabbit – a rabbit living on the moon (Chinese).
    Skvader
    Wisakedjak - (Native American) aka Whiskeyjack. One of several names for rabbit trickster spirit of the eastern woodlands and Great Plains.
    Wolpertinger

Rodents
See also: Category:Mythological rodents

    Afanc
    Lavellan (Scottish) – Water shrew or water vole with poisonous abilities, said to be able to injure cattle over a hundred feet away.
    Ratatoskr
    Rat king; phenomenon in which a number of rats become intertwined at their tails (Germany, France).
    Wolpertinger

Ungulates
Antelopes and deer
See also: Category:Mythological deer

    Actaeon (Greek) – a hunter turned into a deer and torn apart by his dogs.
    Ceryneian Hind (Greek) – Artemis' large, sacred golden hind.
    Deer Woman (Native American) – female human above the waist, deer below. Male version is Elk Man.
    Eikþyrnir (Norse mythology) – stag which stands upon Valhalla.
    Goldhorn (Slavic) – white golden-horned antelope.
    Jackalope (North American) – jackrabbit with antelope horns.
    Keresh (Jewish) – giant deer of the forest of Bei Ilai.
    Peryton (Argentina) – Stag that is part bird.
    Qilin (Chinese) – East Asian chimerical good-luck symbol.
    Tarand (European) also Parandrus. Antelope or deerlike creature said to be found in Ethiopia that can change the color of its fur at will to camouflage itself.
    White stag (worldwide) – magic white deer.
    Xeglun (Tungusic mythology) – celestial elk.

Bovines
See also: Category:Mythological bovines

    Auðumbla
    Bai Ze
    Kujata (Arabic) – Cosmic bull that bears the angel who holds the earth. Kujata, in turn, stands on Bahamhut.
    Bicorn and Chichevache
    Bonnacon
    Hodag (American) – monster born of the cremated remains of an abused bull
    Minotaur – monster with the head of a bull and the body of a man (Greek)
    Nandi
    Sarangay – a bull with a huge muscular body and a jewel attached to its ears (Philippines)
    Shedu
    Tē-gû – a giant buffalo living underground which causes earthquakes (Taiwan)
    Ushi-oni – (Japan)

Camelids

    Allocamelus – A donkey-headed camel.
    Heavenly Llama[4]

Caprids
See also: Category:Mythological caprids

    Amalthea
    Aries
    Barometz
    Capricornus
    Chimera
    Dahu
    Faun – a Roman version of satyr. It has a human head and torso and a goat waist and legs.
    Goldhorn – also known as Zlatorog
    Heiðrún – goat in Norse mythology, which produces mead for the einherjar
    Khnum
    Satyr – a goat legged human that is associated to the deity Dionysus. Known to be drunk partiers.
    Sidehill gouger
    Tanngrisnir and Tanngnjóstr – Thor's magical goats
    Chrysomallos – a sheep with golden fleece from Greek mythology

Equines
Main articles: List of horses in mythology and folklore and List of winged horses
See also: Category:Horses in mythology

    Anggitay – is a creature with the upper body of a female human and the lower body of a horse from waist down (Philippines)
    Arion – Talking immortal horse (Greek)
    Balius and Xanthus (Greek) – immortal offspring of harpies
    Buraq – Al-Burāq, steed from the heavens that transported the prophets (Islam)
    Centaur – head, arms, and torso of a human, the body and legs of a horse (Greek)
    Cheval Gauvin – horse which tries to kill its rider (French/Swiss)
    Cheval Mallet; horse that tempts and kidnaps weary travelers (French)
    Chiron – centaur believed to be exceptional among his brethren (Greek)
    Chollima – a winged horse too swift to be mounted by any mortal (Chinese)
    Drapé - (France) Ghostly horse who spirits away children wandering at night to an unknown location, never to be seen again.
    Gytrash (English) – shapeshifting spirit usually taking the form of a horse, mule or other animal that appears to the lost and leads them to their destination
    Haizum – horse of the archangel Gabriel (Islam)
    Hippogriff – winged horse with the head and upper body of an eagle (French, English)
    Ipotane – half-horse, half-humans, original centaurs (Greek)
    Karkadann – monstrous, highly aggressive unicorn (India, Persia)
    Kotobuki (Japanese) – Yokai with traits of all members of the Chinese zodiac
    Longma – fabled winged horse with dragon scales (China)
    Mankayia (Kiowa) – tornado spirit in the form of a horse
    Onocentaur – part human, part donkey (Greek)
    Pegasus – winged white stallion (Greek)
    Pooka – spirits or fairies who lived near ancient stones; could be good or bad (Ireland)
    Sleipnir – Odin's eight-legged horse, which he rode to Hel (Norse)
    Simurgh – like the Hippogriff with the head of a human (Persian)
    Sihuanaba – shapeshifting spirit that typically appears as a beautiful, long-haired woman when seen from behind, before revealing her face to be that of a horse
    Tikbalang – creature with the body of a man and the head and hooves of a horse that lurks in the mountains and forests (Philippines)
    Uchchaihshravas – seven-headed flying white horse (Hindu)
    Unicorn – horse-like creature with a single horn, often symbolizing purity (worldwide)
        Winged unicorn
    Water Horse – general name for mythical water dwelling horses of many cultures
        Ceffyl Dŵr (Welsh) – water horse
        Each-uisge (Scottish) – Malevolent shapeshifting oceanic water horse
        Enbarr (Irish) – Manann's horse, capable of traversing land and sea
        Hippocampus (Greek) – Horse with a fish tail
        Ichthyocentaurs (Greek) – upper body of a man, the lower front of a horse, tail of a fish
        Kelpie (Scottish) – water horse
        Morvarc'h (Breton) – legendary horse that could gallop on the waves
        Nixie (Germanic) – Shapeshifting water being known for appearing as a horse
        Nuckelavee (Orcadian) – Skinless oceanic water horse with pestilent breath
        Nuggle (Scottish) – Mischievous male water horse
        Tangie (Scottish) – shapeshifting sea water horse
    White horse

Pachyderms
Main article: List of elephants in mythology and religion
See also: Category:Mythological elephants

    Abath
    Baku
    Behemoth
    Quugaarpak - (Inuit) Explanation for Mammoths & other Ice Age remains washing out of riversides. Underworld monsters who dig their way up to the human world, but die upon breathing our air.
    Taweret

Pigs and boars
See also: Category:Mythological pigs

    Calydonian Boar
    Erymanthian Boar
    Zhu Bajie

Xenarthrans

    Mapinguari

Molluscs
See also: Category:Mythological molluscs

    Akkorokamui – octopus monster (Ainu, Japan)
    Amikuk (Yup'ik) - Shapeshifting four armed 'octopus' that can swim through land as easily as water.
    Carbuncle (Chilote) – one of its many descriptions is a luminescent bivalve[3][2]
    Lou Carcolh – A giant, man-eating snail with fur and tentacles (France)
    Kraken – squid monster (Worldwide)
    Shen – A clam-dragon that creates mirages and fata morgana at sea (China)

Reptiles
Limbed
See also: Category:Legendary reptiles

    Agoa (American) – turtle monster of West Virginian lore centered around the Monongahela River
    Ammut – female demon, funerary deity and animal hybrid (Egypt)
    Bakunawa – serpentine dragon in Philippines
    Basilisk – king of serpents with the power to cause death with a single glance (Europe)
    Black Tortoise – one of the four symbols of the Chinese constellations
    Chalkydri
    Chinese Dragon – serpentine creature with four legs
    Cipactli – sea monster, part crocodile, fish and toad. Always hungry, thousands of mouths (Aztec)
    Dragon – serpentine, reptilian traits (worldwide)
    Dungavenhooter – a crocodilian creature with no mouth and huge nostrils who uses its tail to pound victims into a vapor, which it then inhales
    Knucker – sea serpent-like dragon
    Kurma
    Loch Ness Monster – sea monster cryptid (Scotland)
    Loveland frog – Humanoid cryptid (The United States (Ohio))
    Luu – (Mongol) – serpentine water dragons capable of causing great floods if angered.
    Makara
    Mokele Mbembe
    Moʻo (Hawaiian) class of shapeshifting lizard monsters
    Morgawr (Cornish) – crocodilian sea serpent that affects fishing
    Mungoon-Gali – a giant goanna (Australia)
    Peluda
    Reptilian humanoids
    Sewer alligator
    Sobek
    Taniwha
    Whowie – a giant frog-headed goanna with six legs (Australia)
    Wyvern
    Zaratan

Serpents and worms
See also: List of dragons in mythology and folklore, Category: Legendary serpents, and Serpents in the Bible

    Alicante
    Amphisbaena
    Amphithere
    Apep/Apophis
    Azhi Dahaka
    Basilisk
    Bakonawa
    Biscione
    Cockatrice
    Dragon
    Drake
    Echidna
    Fáfnir
    Feathered serpent
    Garafena (Russian)
    Gorgon
    Hoop snake
    Indus worm
    Hydra
    Jaculus/Jaculi
    Jasconius
    Jörmungandr — the Midgård serpent
    Lamia
    Lindworm
    Madame White Snake
    Meretseger
    Mongolian Death Worm
    Naga
    Níðhöggr
    Orm
    Ouroboros
    Python
    Rainbow serpent
    Sea serpent
    Schießschlange
    Tarasque
    Tolba — the world turtle that supports North America upon its back
    Tsuchinoko
    Typhon
    Ur
    Wyvern
    Yamata no Orochi
    Zilant

Megafauna
Main article: List of megafauna in mythology and folklore
Giants
Main article: List of giants in mythology and folklore
Artificial creatures

This listing includes creatures that are man-made, mechanical or of alchemical origins.

    Automaton (worldwide) – self-operating machine; most famous example is Greek mythology's Talos
    Blodeuwedd (Welsh) – wife of Lleu Llaw Gyffes
    Brazen head (Medieval legends) – living head of brass purported to be able to answer any question given to it
    Doll Woman- (Lenape) lifelike doll spirit. Must stay properly appeased, or will cause mischief in the home.
    Frankenstein's monster
    Galatea (Greek) – ivory statue carved by Pygmalion
    Gingerbread man – from German folk tales
    Golem (Jewish) – animated humanoid construct
    Homunculus (Alchemy) – diminutive, animated construct
    Nephele (Greek) – nymph formed from a cloud by Zeus to resemble the goddess Hera
    Shabti (Egyptian) – clay model used as workers
    Tokeloshe (Zulu mythology) – diminutive, hairy humanoid with various magical powers
    Tilberi (Iceland) – creations of witches from a rib bone and wool for the purpose of stealing milk
    Tsukumogami (Japanese) – objects that come to life, of their own accord, after 100 years
    Tulpa (Tibetan Buddhism) – creature brought to life through meditation
    Tupilaq (Inuit) – large statues brought to life to serve witches and shamans
    Ushabti (Egyptian) – clay guardians/assistants
    Various objects animated by gods, demons and spirits in mythology, legend and folklore

Body parts, creatures associated with
Blood
See also: Category:Mythological blood-drinkers

    Alan
    Chupacabra
    Dhampir
    Preta
    Golden Hind
    Kappa
    Kekkai
    Lamia
    Manananggal
    Mandurugo
    Redcap
    Rokurokubi
    Sigbin
    Vampire
    Werewolf
    Yuki-onna

Bone

    Bloody Bones
    Gashadokuro
    Grim Reaper
    Skeleton

Eye

    Argus Panoptes
    Basilisk
    Catoblepas
    Cockatrice
    Cyclopes
    Gorgon
    Hitotsume-kozou
    Lamia
    Lynx
    Mokumokuren

One-eyed
Main article: List of one-eyed creatures in mythology and fiction
Face

    Asura
    Deva / Devi
    Noppera-bō

Hair

    Futakuchi-onna
    Harionago
    Mavka
    Medusa

Head
Further information: Polycephaly

    Amphisbaena
    Cerberus
    Chimera
    Chonchon
    Double-headed eagle
    Dullahan
    Hekatonkheires
    Kishi
    Hydra
    Lernaean Hydra
    Nine-headed Bird
    Nukekubi
    Rokurokubi
    Orthrus
    Shesha
    Penanggalan
    Wanyūdō
    Xing Tian
    Yacuruna
    Yamata no Orochi

Limbs

    Asura (Indian)
    Deva / Devi (Indian)
    Hekatonkheires
    Hinkypunk - (English) variation on Will o the wisp. A single, incorporeal leg hopping around bogs with a lantern.
    Kui
    O'nya:ten (Iroquoian) aka Dry Fingers. Mummified hand. Appears and leaps out at people after certain transgressions, such as speaking ill of the dead, or butting into other people's personal business.
    Sleipnir
    Three-legged bird

Mouth

    Futakuchi-onna
    Kuchisake-onna

Skin

    Selkie
    Skin-walker
    Swan maiden

Tail

    Bakeneko
    Kitsune
    Yamata no Orochi
    Kumiho
    Hulder
    Nguruvilu

Neck

    Serpopard
    Rokurokubi
    Vampire

Torso

    Manananggal
    Geryon[5]

Abdomen

    Pixiu

Concepts and creatures associated with:
Battle, vengeance, violence, and war
See also: Category:War deities

    Androktasiai
    Erinyes
    Hipag
    Hysminai
    Keres
    Lemures
    Makhai
    Onryō
    Phonoi
    Valkyrie
    Vengeful ghost

Birth and rebirth
See also: Category:Phoenix birds

    Aralez
    Phoenix
    Ubume

Death and immortality
See also: List of ghosts
See also the categories Undead and Personifications of death

    Abasy
    Ammit
    Banshee
    Demon
    Devil
    Dullahan
    Ghost
    Grim Reaper
    Ox-Head and Horse-Face
    Phoenix
    Undead
    Valkyrie
    Vampire

Dreams, the mind, and sleep
See also: Category:Sleep in mythology and folklore

    Alp
    Baku
    Carbuncle
    Devil
    Drude
    Incubus / Succubus
    Mermaid
    Nightmare
    Nue
    Oni
    Sandman
    Satori
    Zduhać

Evil eye and sight

    Alp (folklore)
    Basilisk
    Balor of the Evil Eye – king of the Fomorians, a race of giants, and a cyclops (Irish)
    Catoblepas
    Cockatrice
    Gorgon – woman with hair made of living, venomous snakes, and eyes that turned men to stone (Greek):
        Medusa – once a human, Medusa and her sisters were cursed to be terrible monsters by Athena (Greek)
        Euryale – second eldest of the three vicious Gorgon sisters (Greek)
        Stheno – eldest of the Gorgon Sisters (Greek)

Fertility and human sexuality

    Alan
    Boto
    Faun
    Gancanagh
    German
    Incubus / Succubus
    Maenad
    Nymph
    Pombero
    Popobawa
    Satyr
    Sileni / Silenus
    Unicorn
    Zemyna / Zemepatis
    Simurgh

Fortune, luck, and wealth

    Carbuncle (Chilote) – said to be the "guardian of the metals"[3]
    Dwarf
    Egbere
    Genie
    Leib-Olmai
    Leprechaun
    Matagot
    Pixiu
    Sarimanok
    Sigbin
    Yaksha / Yakshini

Light

    Angel
    Chalkydri
    Deity
    Lampetia
    Will-o'-the-wisp
    Dragon

Love and romance
See also: Category:Love and lust gods

    Cupid / Eros / Cherub
    Gancanagh
    Selkie
    Swan maiden
    Madame White Snake
    Melusine
    Tennin
    Undine

Sound

    Banshee
    Encantado
    Fenghuang
    Fossegrim
    Mermaid
    Nue
    Siren
    Yamabiko

Speech
Main article: Talking animal

    Gef
    Satan

Time and technology
See also: Category:Time and fate gods

    Chronos
    Father Time
    Gremlin

Wisdom

    Baba Yaga
    Bai Ze
    Griffin
    Salmon of Wisdom
    Sphinx

Demons

    See list of theological demons

Elements, creatures associated with
Aether

    Chalkydri
    Deity
    Elemental
    Spirit
    Angel
    Demon
    Devil
    Yokai
    Nymph
    Elf
    Fairy

Air and wind
See also: List of flying mythological creatures

    Ala
    Elemental
    Feldgeister
    Zduhać

Darkness

    Black dog
    Bogeyman
    Enenra
    Ghost
    Grim Reaper
    Wechuge
    Wendigo
    Shadow People
    Vampire
    Werewolf
    Oni
    Gashadokuro
    Camazotz
    Wild Hunt
    Hell Hound

Earth and subterranean
See also: Category:Earth spirits

    Asag
    Bluecap
    Elemental
    Dwarf
    Earth Dragon
    Gargoyle
    Giant
    Gnome
    Goblin
    Golem
    Knocker (folklore)
    Monopod
    Nymph
    Ogre
    Oread
    Ten Ten-Vilu
    Troll

Fire
Further information: Fire-breathing monster

    Basan
    Bluecap
    Cherufe
    Chimera
    Dragon
    Elemental
    Enenra
    Ifrit
    Hellhound
    Lampad
    Phoenix
    Salamander

Light and rainbow

    Angel
    Chalkydri
    Light Elf
    Rainbow crow
    Rainbow Serpent

Metal and gold

    Alicanto[1]
    Pixiu
    Carbunclo[3]
    Chrysomallos
    Cyclopes
    Griffin
    Gnome
    Leprechaun
    Bulgasari

Thunder and lightning

    Chinese dragon
    Cyclopes
    Feldgeister
    Kitsune
    Raijū
    Thunderbird
    Valkyrie

Water
See also the categories Mythological water creatures and Water spirits

    Afanc
    Amefurikozō
    Aspidochelone
    Bloody Bones
    Buggane
    Bunyip
    Camenae
    Capricorn
    Cetus
    Charybdis
    Chinese Dragon
    Cai Cai-Vilu
    Crinaeae
    Davy Jones' Locker
    Draug
    Each uisge
    Elemental
    Fish People
    Fossegrim
    Fur-bearing trout
    Gargouille
    Grindylow
    Haetae
    Hippocamp
    Hydra
    Ichthyocentaur
    Jasconius
    Jengu
    Kappa
    Kelpie
    Kraken
    Lake monster
    Lavellan
    Leviathan
    Loch Ness Monster
    Lorelei
    Lusca
    Makara
    Melusine
    Mami Wata
    Mermaid / Merman
    Merrow
    Morgens
    Muc-sheilch
    Naiad
    Näkki
    Nereid
    Nix
    Nymph
    Pisces
    Ponaturi
    River gods
    Rusalka
    Samebito
    Sea monster
    Sea serpent
    Selkie
    Shen
    Siren
    Taniwha
    Tiamat
    Triton
    Ondine
    Vodyanoy
    Water dragon
    Water leaper
    Water sprite
    Yacuruna
    Zaratan

Habitats, creatures associated with
Cave and underground

    Dwarf
    European dragon
    Gnome
    Goblin
    Golem
    Grootslang
    Kaboutermanneken
    Knocker
    Leprechaun
    Troll
    Yaoguai

Celestial and heaven

    Angel
    Chalkydri
    Deva / Devi
    Feathered serpent
    Heavenly Llama[4]
    Pegasus
    Grim Reaper
    Swan Maiden
    Tennin
    Three-legged bird
    Valkyrie

Desert

    Amphisbaena
    Basilisk
    Cockatrice
    Ghoul
    Mongolian Death Worm
    Sphinx

Temperate forest and woodland
See also: Category:Forest spirits

    Äbädä (Turkic) – forest spirit with shoes on the wrong feet
    Ajatar
    Bigfoot
    Dryad
    Elf
    Green Man
    Irrwurz
    Leshy
    Lindworm
    Mavka
    Moss people
    Owlman
    Satyr
    Unicorn

Tropical forest and jungle

    Curupira
    Dingonek
    Mapinguari
    Manticore
    Saci

Temperate grassland and garden

    Fairy
    Gnome

Savanna

    Ennedi tiger
    Werehyena

Lake and river
See also: Category:Lake monsters

    Ahuitzotl
    Bak
    Bunyip
    Chinese dragon
    Dobhar-chú
    Encantado
    Grootslang
    Iara
    Jiaolong
    Kappa
    Kelpie
    Lake monster
    Hydra
    Loch Ness Monster
    Mizuchi
    Mugwump
    Naiad
    Nixie
    Ogopogo
    Ondine
    Rainbow serpent
    Rusalka
    Ryujin
    Shellycoat
    Warlock
    Yacuruna

Mountain and hill
See also: Category:Mining spirits

    Alp
    Dwarf
    Fenghuang
    Griffin
    Hippogriff
    Mountain Giant
    Kamaitachi
    Mavka
    Oread
    Patupaiarehe
    Rübezahl
    Satyr
    Tengu
    Yeti

Sea
See also: Sea monster and Greek sea goddesses

    Amikuk
    Aspidochelone
    Bishop-fish
    Charybdis
    Cai Cai-Vilu
    Dragon King
    Fish People
    Hippocamp
    Iku-Turso
    Leviathan
    Jormungand
    Kraken
    Mermaid / Merman
    Nereid
    Sea monk
    Sea serpent
    Selkie
    Shen
    Siren
    Tritons
    Umibōzu
    Water Dragon
    Yacuruna

Swamp and marsh
See also: Category:Swamp monsters

    Błudnik
    Bunyip
    Grootslang
    Lernaean Hydra
    Honey Island Swamp monster
    Mokele-mbembe
    Swamp monster
    Will-o'-the-wisp

Volcano and lava

    Cherufe
    Phoenix
    Salamander

Polar, ice, and winter

    Akhlut
    Amarok
    Hrimthurs
    Ijiraq
    Jotun
    Qiqirn
    Saumen Kar
    Tizheruk
    Wechuge
    Wendigo
    Yeti
    Ymir
    Yuki-onna
    Frau Holle

Urban and house
Main article: Household deity
See also: Category:Household deities

    Banshee
    Boggart
    Brownie
    Domovoi – Slavic house spirit
    Dvorovoi – Slavic yard spirit
    Duende
    Jinn
    Kobold
    Tomte
    Vampire
    Zashiki-warashi

Underworld and hell
See also: Category:Underworld deities
Cerberus

    Ammit
    Cerberus
    Cyclopes
    Demon
    Devil
    Earth Dragon
    Garm
    Hekatonkheires
    Hellhound
    Ifrit
    Ox-Head and Horse-Face
    Preta

Humanoids

    See Mythic humanoids

Hybrids
Main articles: List of hybrid creatures and Human–animal hybrid
Astronomical objects, creatures associated with
Sun

    Chalkydri beings from the Second Book of Enoch[6]
    Kua Fu a giant in China
    Three-legged bird in China, Korea, and Japan
    Phoenix in Greek Mythology

Moon

    Jade rabbit
    Werewolf
    Werejaguar
    Alien

Constellation

    Azure Dragon
    Black Tortoise
    Capricorn
    Centaur
    Heavenly Llama[4]
    Ladon
    Nemean Lion
    Pegasus
    Phoenix
    Vermilion Bird
    Yellow Dragon
    White Tiger

World
See also: List of mythological places

    World Elephant
    World Tree
    World Turtle

Creatures associated with plants
See also: Category:Trees in mythology

    Alraune
    Clickbok Tree- (American) An oak tree planted by a slave which later comes to life to protect his wife and son from a vengeful slave overseer.
    Dryad
    Ghillie Dhu
    Green Man
    Hamadryad
    Jubokko
    Kodama
    Leshy
    Mandrake
    Penghou
    Snake Tree- (Lakota) Tree brought to life by a witch. Lashes out at anything that comes close with branches covered in poisonous thorns that paralyze the victim.
    Spriggan
    Tree of life
    Vampire pumpkins and watermelons (Romani)
    Vegetable Lamb of Tartary
    Zapam Zucum
    Zaqqum
    See Trees in mythology

Shapeshifters
Main article: List of shapeshifters
Creatures associated with times
Day and diurnal

    Griffin
    Jackalope
    Unicorn (rather resembles the moon)
    Wolpertinger

Night and nocturnal

    Amarok
    Bigfoot
    Ennedi tiger
    Ghoul
    Owlman
    Werewolf
    Vampire

Undead
See also: Undead and Category:Ghosts

    Aswang
    Banshee – (Scottish, Gaelic, Irish)
    Chindi - (Navajo) The dark side of the soul which has the ability to remain behind in the earth after death and become a sort of dark spirit.
    Drekavac (Croatia) Name used for several distinct undead monsters.
    Ghost – (Worldwide)
    Inipi- (California Native) shapeshifting ghosts
    Jikininki
    Kuchisake-onna
    Lugat (Albanian)
    Poltergeist – (Worldwide)
    Preta
    Revenant
    Sluagh
    Spirit – (Worldwide)
    Tei Pai Wanka - (Wampanoag) Term for swamp lights in Algonquian lore. Enslaved souls of people taken by the Little People who are used to scare people who've done wrong or lure them to their deaths.
    Wanagi- (Lakota) Lakota name for Siouan shadow people. Essentially ghosts.
    Wewe Gombel
    Wili
    Will o' the wisp – Jack o lantern (English)
    Wraith
    Yurei
    Ghosts in Hindu Mythology: Bhoot, Baital and Pishacha

Corporeal
See also: List of vampires in folklore and mythology

    Draugr
    Fext
    Ghoul
    Jiangshi
    Lich
    Manananggal
    Mullo (Romani) variation on a vampire.
    Mummy (undead) (modern interpretation)
    Myling
    Nukekubi
    Pontianak
    Skeleton
    Vampire
    Zombie

Miscellaneous

    Anaye - (Navajo) various monsters that take the forms of animals, living objects and other things. Derived from a time when men and women bet on who would last the longest without the other sex and the women pleasuring themselves with whatever random things they thought would do the job, which caused their chosen toys to father them monstrous, man-eating children.
    Daimon
    Demon
    Fairy
    Familiar
    Genie – or Jinn, Djinn
    Monster
    Sprite
    Yōkai

References

    Montecino Aguirre, Sonia (2015). "Alicanto". Mitos de Chile: Enciclopedia de seres, apariciones y encantos (in Spanish). Catalonia. pp. 47–48. ISBN 978-956-324-375-8.
    Quintana Mansilla, Bernardo. "El Carbunco". Chiloé mitológico (in Spanish).
    Montecino Aguirre, Sonia (2015). "Carbunclo". Mitos de Chile: Enciclopedia de seres, apariciones y encantos (in Spanish). Catalonia. p. 130. ISBN 978-956-324-375-8.
    Montecino Aguirre, Sonia (2015). "Llamas". Mitos de Chile: Enciclopedia de seres, apariciones y encantos (in Spanish). Catalonia. p. 415. ISBN 978-956-324-375-8.
    "Geryon". Theoi. Retrieved 10 February 2017. "a three-bodied, four-winged giant"
    Platt, Rutherford (1926). The Lost Books of the Bible and the Forgotten Books of Eden. Entry: The Book of the Secrets of Enoch chapter XII

    vte

Lists of fictional life forms
Plants	

    Plants

Animals	

    Animal superheroes Arthropods Fish Invertebrates Parasites Worms

Amphibians	

    Frogs and toads

Reptiles	

    Crocodilians Dinosaurs Snakes Turtles

Birds	

    Birds of prey Ducks
        animation Penguins

Mammals	
Canines	

    Animation Comics Literature Dogs
        prose and poetry comics live-action film live-action television animation animated film animated television video games Foxes Wolves

Felines	

    Animation Comics Film Literature Television Big cats
        animation

Rodents	

    Animation Comics Literature

Non-human primates	

    Animation Comics Film Literature Television

Ungulates	

    Animation Horses Literature Pachyderms Pigs

Miscellaneous	

    Bats Bears Cetaceans Marsupials Musteloids Pinnipeds Rabbits and hares Rhinogradentia

Humanoids	
General	

    Comics Film Literature Television Video games

Specific	

    Alien Aquatic Avian Reptilian

Other	

    Extraterrestrials Parasites Symbionts

Legendary	

    Fictional dragons
        popular culture film and television games literature Fictional ghosts Fictional mermaids Fictional vampires Fictional werewolves

Theological	

    Fictional angels Fictional demons Fictional deities

Related	

    Cryptids Legendary creatures Dragons in mythology and folklore Equines
        Winged horses Winged unicorns Giants Hybrids Vampires
        by region

Categories:

    Lists of legendary creaturesMythology-related lists
	
	

Website Source Master Link (Wikipedia.org): https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_legendary_creatures_by_type
	
	
	
-Matthew Gordon Roulston Ambitionfire 2:43 PM 27th (Monday) / 07 (July) / 2026