Monster Duelling Card Game History With Video Game Engines

"Theme: Monster Duelling / Pokemon Alternate on Redot / Rex 
"It's kinda over due I think at this point? I liked pokemon in gen 1 on the playground but no one understood the rules so we just played it like war where cooler card won lol. It sorta never became as cool as gen 1 and it'd be cooler to do what should have been done with monster games."
"Yep [monster duelling games on Rex Engine would be cool] and also it can be on more than just video games. I have a card game already made I call full tilt super war and it uses regular decks of playing cards to play mechanically but has tons of collectable options. Kinda like chess with static numbers, war with simplicity and pogs / pokemon in collectability."
[People surprised no kids really played by the rules with Pokemon] "To be fair out of like 100 kids like 2-4 played by the rules but for everyone else it was a mix of pokemon digimon bayblades and random cool things or made up pokemon cards in like this square covered bench pit area and like 20 kids would watch like 2-4 duelers throw down cards and the crowd would decide who had the cooler card or not and what was fair or not. Somehow bayblades were used where maybe if you lost you were shot with bayblades or something or tie breakers etc."
[TTRPG but pokemon]
"I remember behind the school there were bamboo poles growing and there were bamboo duels also where same rules applied / who ever cried first lost. the bamboo was cut down after some pokemon rule kids wanted to try being cool but got bloodied and cried to the teachers. They were forever bullied and no one wanted to play with them. Somehow bamboo sword fights were a tie breaker with monster dueling cards I remember one time. I remember a kid lost and tried to throw a gameboy upon the roof but the crowd like grabbed him and threw him in a puddle in wintertime. The kids said he fell down and the teachers didn't believe the kid. It was wild being like 4-9 years old in my school I guess. 
My original monster duel games was very different than what pokemon / digimon / other monster dueling games turned into.
Forever different I suppose. You know why isn't there sword fights in the monster games?"
-Matthew Gordon Roulston Ambitionfire 2:02 PM 31st / 12 (December) / 2025