The Crimson Sacrifice Gauntlet (Battle Encounter)[AGABAL®]

----------------

Notes:

-----------------

Matthew — 14:43
The crimson Sacrifice gauntlet . How to dream it was both the wow forever. Beta, doing global 30, and there was this people were talking de facto, be able to do the level 60 world content, and there was this kind of joke where there's this Guild, there's a stream or something, and there it was this high elevated area with like A  That you get to like a plateau, but it was in strangathorn. Vale the area with the naga in trolls but near the naga water area with the rear up and above near the arena and but this was similar to the Ultima outlands like this kind of bloody gore sticks with spikes and pikes and stuff like that, it was this area of like blood and trolls and it was basically this outdoor dungeon.  It was above what maybe you could put this in where the ogre sort of are the ogres and ogres and trolls like south of the zolc, south south of zoo g on the on the mountains that you could do it there, and it was basically you go up. And there's just like these kind of winding, high elevated, like mountain thing, and there's these similar to the like, zol mashar to get up to there in Eastern plague lands, but  You get app there and then you have to go across this like jungle bridge and there's this red portal, it's quite high app like you can fall across like you can fall like looks it go right down it basically you have to like it's like 3 hills like similar to like 1000 needles, and you can drop down and you die if you go up, and there's these, like raised areas similar to the strangathorn Vale Islands in turtle, wow.  And you have this like it's like a it's like a bump and a little island there's a bridge goes app and then it goes Uber and then it's little and then it goes, they're like, oh gosh, they're like a shout, how shell winds and then the bridge goes app again across, and there's a bit of a bump and then plateau exploration thing, and then it goes app as aggressively goes up.  And then goes up to this.I don't think it's like this plateau , green jungle
And it's like this jungle. It's like the theme is this like tribal? Almost like jablo ii or the jungle trolls on all these type of thing, it's the Ultima outlands, air outlet with areas all the blood, the skeletons and the spikes and spikes, all that type of stuff and so like jungle, voodoo and hoodoo, that kind of thing, and it's, it's trolls ogres Kazan, almost like the shamas, it's more of like a religious thing of like a blood, you know, thing like the crimson sacrifice the gauntlet, and there's like a Pyramid of top similar to the z. G or the forest trolls  It's like more definitely like you go to you go up to yeah, so it's like the area you get up. There is an instanced, it's just got 3 plateaus in a spiral that goes clockwise and you start at the south and it's like, I guess like almost like Minecraft that like RTS thing they had or you get up these platforms anyway. The yeah, these aggressive, like you're up there. Probably like it's gotta be at least 10 stories or something or maybe like it feels like it's like 6 stories, it's way up there and yeah, top it's anywhere at the top. And then the third plateau thing in the spiral has, you know, they have like these.  Control of like little hot things you go like similar to the beach that he can go on top and he can overlook, oh, that's a far word down whatever they overhang, and that and then you know, you go down there and it goes jungle bridge thing and yeah, the top ones kind of level A. Little bit lower, but it almost level. With the the entrance, it's crimson red portal, I remember it was like the world warcraft instances, but it was red, it was supposed to it was supposed to be like like a raid or something of something different. Some type of thing where you could get in there at lower level and like level 30, but it was meant for like higher level stuff. So like maybe it was like a dungeon, you could do at I don't know like  Level 5 level 60s or something or 4, and then you could like, do it as like
I\n Remember that they were like they could, like found this thing, and they were really interested in it. And it was like this. They could like get inside of it, but like all of the big group, it was like raid, but maybe it was like a super raid or something for like low level, like somewhere like season discovery, they had these like dungeons turned into 10 person raids. Well, maybe this is like a 40 person raid version of like a dungeon, sort of kinda maybe like it changed on your level. I'm sure how this work exactly, but like, not because like the it was also outside instance thing. So maybe like there was you could like get in there. Maybe it was like a mixed level dungeon, like similar to the  To everquest or outlands where you'd have like, actually like high level stuff, which would kind of like some type of boss thing you could get like that toll guy you had to fight who was like levels 860, you had to get a gum and like season discovery at level like 50 or 60%, the blood boon thing. So like, yeah, like level 60, but you can get them at like you could swarm him and basically come, maybe something like that right where you could like, maybe this is like an instance where you could bring as many people as you want, you know, maybe if like blue is  Like 5 and 10 and green is 20 and 40 and maybe red is 80 and a 160, right? Because there's the bigger realms now, so maybe this is a like a like a big one where you could be, it'd be a lower level. Maybe it's a level 3060 person, right? But then as you get up, it gets less and less people, right? So maybe it's like AA level 5 or it's a 5 person 60 if you're all geared out or not so geared out, it's level, it's it's a 5 person.  Maybe at level thirty , it's a hundred and twenty person
SkyLizardGirl — 14:49
hai
am here.*
how are you?
Matthew — 14:49
I was thinking about how I could like put this into a game, but remember that it's also like it was, I guess connect the wetlands dungeon outside thing. And it was like also or also mention the the new sunken seti thing they added in there so probably mixed with that all together, but I guess with  Yeah , so much all those things , I think , yeah , eight hundred and a hundred and twenty person interesting at l
SkyLizardGirl — 14:49
Oh?
0_0
Matthew
 started a call. — 14:49
Matthew — 15:16

----------------


The Crimson Sacrifice Gauntlet (Battle Encounter)

----------------

(1,280 Person At Level -10)
640 Person At Level 1
320 Person At Level 10
160 Person At Level 20
80 Person At Level 30
40 Person At Level 40
20 Person At Level 50
10 Person At Level 60 (Tier 0)
5 Person At Level 60 (Tier 1)
2.5 Person At Level 60 (Tier 2)
1.25 Person At Level 60 (Tier 3)

----------------

AFFRAY 0.1 Person
CLASH 0.5-1.5 Person
SKIRMISH 3-15 Person
RAID 20-90 Person
BATTLE 100-900 Person
WAR 1,000-9,000 Person
GREAT-WAR 10,000+ Person

----------------

-Matthew Gordon Roulston Ambitionfire (Assisted With Arianna Crystal Arbolida Ritter) 3:09 PM 02nd (Friday) / 10th (October) / 2026