I must try my best anyway I can, to do the best I can with what I can do, with what I have in life; by any means possible within reason and upholding dignity of being the better person and the ability to lead people to the best of my ability.

I'm working on building my modular house now, it is a lot like how you built the camp modules. I'm building with 16'ft x 8'ft x 8'ft sections then bolting them together with lag bolts and having them on my pyramid block foundation I've been working on since late 2023. I need to build a house in my life to continue and I will potentially not have children if my house is too delayed. I am 30 years old and I should try to make a family but I need to do it properly. As a big man or Lugal in Sumerian the core of our ancestor of the Forbes Clan and as our blood married into the grand daughter of Robert the Bruce High King and Protector of the Realms and from his blood line, I have been talking with Lord Forbes and of the Old House elder to our own as an invited guest to champion our shared ancestral values and culture and architecture all the way back to the first kings of the isles back past the pillars of heracles back to King Gordias founder of the capital city of Gordium of the Gordium Empire ally of the Trojan Empire (later known as Gordion later where my namesake you named myself Gordon) and father of King Midas and before that all the way back to the beginning to the kings of Babylon, Sumer of the first kings of recorded history to the ancient vaults of humanity in the Attarat mountains 11,000 years ago when the fire rained fire for three weeks and most all life on earth was lost so completed even when one digs into the earth all that is left is a planet wide scar of ash and bone of a cataspere our ancestors lead humanity through not once but twice a thousand years ago 12,000 years and beyond before recorded history. Our line built the first pyramids, the first civilizations, founded the first religions, united humanity to the first empires drove back catastrophes after cataspher for thousands of years and here we are on the countdown to nuclear extinction of our people 12,000+ years in the making in 30-50 years from now as the fire rains in the skies once again this time a nuclear hellfire of millions of drones flown from the himalayan mountains roof of the world to the west. In this context I must be strong and be the ark, the big monkey under three at the river bend that gathers the seeds and grows the garden and protects the big tree and digs the trenches and bridges as the forest burns all around with nowhere to run as it has been ever since 4 million years ago. I am waiting for the monkeys with burnt bums to come running and through my strength order in the chaos as the ancestors have done for thousands of years before. I smell the fire on the wind, civilization is burning our old world is ending the old dynasty is dying the troubled times are here and the win must come from somewhere so I must be incredibly powerful in order to save my people who are slated for annihilation after annihilation, it is a countdown to extinction.

Thus I build. Anyway I can. It is happening.

I need to build a house in my life to continue and I will potentially not have children if my house is too delayed. I am 30 years old and I should try to make a family but I need to do it properly. As a big man or Lugal in Sumerian the core of our ancestor of the Forbes Clan and as our blood married into the grand daughter of Robert the Bruce High King and Protector of the Realms and from his blood line, I have been talking with Lord Forbes and of the Old Houses elder to our own as an invited guest to champion our shared ancestral values and culture and architecture all the way back to the first kings of the isles back past the pillars of heracles back to King Gordias founder of the capital city of Gordium of the Gordium Empire ally of the Trojan Empire (later known as Gordion later where my namesake you named myself Gordon) and father of King Midas and before that all the way back to the beginning to the kings of Babylon, Sumer of the first kings of recorded history to the ancient vaults of humanity in the Ararat mountains 11,000 years ago when the fire rained fire for three weeks and most all life on earth was lost so completely even when one digs into the earth all that is left of that time is a planet wide scar of ash and bone of a catastrophe our ancestors lead humanity through not once but twice a thousand years ago apart 12,000 years and beyond before recorded history. Our line built the first pyramids, the first civilizations, founded the first religions, united humanity to the first empires drove back catastrophes after catastrophe for thousands of years and here we are on the countdown to nuclear extinction of our people, free peoples of the world given fair and just laws and way of life through our bloodline direct 12,000+ years in the making yet now here I am facing down potentially alone in 30-50 years as a bulwark of to give strength to rally all the free peoples of world as I say to millions 'If Humanity can dream forever free, than shall Humanity live forever free' from my strength and power of will I give to people today who have already I taught freedom and died to a man in their nations against tyranny as I fight in my lands. I taught Hong Kongers to be free before the government crack downs of 2019-2022 they died for it, in game dev in Unity game engine their code lives on but they are lost forever, this is the case with my late friends in Ukraine and Russia before the war, I have lost many friends I taught all I have is their code base, ghosts in the machine gravekeeper of the graveyard of dreams I am a last fire of creation; I've read the Chinese deep war plans. From now, as the fire rains in the skies once again, this time a nuclear hellfire of millions of drones flown from the himalayan mountains roof of the world to the west. In this context I must be strong and be the ark, the big monkey under three at the river bend that gathers the seeds and grows the garden and protects the big tree and digs the trenches and bridges as the forest burns all around with nowhere to run as it has been ever since 4 million years ago. I am waiting for the monkeys with burnt bums to come running and through my strength order in the chaos as the ancestors have done for thousands of years before. I smell the fire on the wind, civilization is burning our old world is ending the old dynasty is dying the troubled times are here and the win must come from somewhere so I must be incredibly powerful in order to save my people who are slated for annihilation after annihilation, it is a countdown to extinction.

Thus I build. Anyway I can. It is happening.


What I sent:
"I'm looking for a proper big drill, impact drill are bad on bits so I've been looking for a big regular drill to handle the proper big combat aerospace grade drill bits without overly damaging or chipping the tip off.

I'm working on building my modular house now, it is a lot like how you built the camp modules. I'm building with 16'ft x 8'ft x 8'ft sections then bolting them together with lag bolts and having them on my pyramid block foundation I've been working on since late 2023. If I am paid as you said earlier ~2,000 Dollars from helping get the 7 Pallets completed I can build my house with that money and from there be in a position to seek a proper family in my 30's.

I must try my best anyway I can, to do the best I can with what I can do, with what I have in life; by any means possible within reason and upholding dignity of being the better person and the ability to lead people to the best of my ability.

There is a lot of work to do and think of building up life to support more life and houses and machine shops and importing machines, making machines and I pursue software and hardware. Things are getting better bit by bit. Take care and best of luck."

-Matthew Gordon Roulston Ambitionfire 8:58 PM 03rd (Sunday) / 05 (May) / 2026