In the trenches of the digital world for the battle to win creative freedom for all of humanity.

I personally have been trying to get the Godot staff to do Godot 5 for 2-3 years. So for myself this Rex Engine is what I sought from 'Godot 5' and better. So I have every reason to make sure the code has a proper chance to succeed. if it leaks and the team gets torpedoes this will be more difficult than it needs to be and i'd rather just have the engine work well only on in the next year or so up to the full launch of the 10th console generation coming in late 2027.

The Godot staff work on everything else but Godot 5; even though the engine direly needs a rewrite very bad. They would rather make conventions and play for social events even though none on the staff has every worked on a major game, the leaders do no code anymore on anything meaningful and are not in the trenches in this critical moment in gaming history for the freedom of the creative world. Yet the Godot paid staff spend the money like they know all the answers. 

Yet here are, working and not doing luxurious conventions, we are not partying nor boasting. I find this band of developers to not be pontificating self destructive politics as others are so easily seduced and tempted by and by their own actions value how to think more than being a game and engine developer enough to make what they claim to be their main task in life; create a proper MIT game engine for the creative community.

Even though creating a proper MIT game engine is the sole reason of these game engine foundations to exist and at other engine dev organisations claim that all these troubled people claim to work towards. Yet Instead there are those here who value high quality work for a game engine above all else and these people are doing all the hard work that makes the creative community have proper game engine for the 2030's and beyond to make great games worth playing.

The Redot creative community has a world class C# and C++ engine in Rex. Godot literally has nothing at all to show for a for world class C# and C++ engine. Even though Godot now after 5 years, half decade since it should have started proper C#, C++ development they still have nothing to show. The have the money now, yet they do nothing. They have no excuses to do proper engine work and yet still refuse to make a proper game engine; even though that is there only job in the world.

Yet the Godot staff hides every financial report for years ever since the money rolled into what is supposed to be a transparent non-profit foundation and yet do everything to beg for donations but nothing to do the work that is difficult yet necessary. I have been trying to get everyone in the creative community ready for the 10th console generation fully launching in late 2027. If Rex is bungled at launch due to leaks this will be unfortunate, not just for this staff and great team but deeply for myself.

For I have been working for decades against what is easy to do, but instead I and others have been working for decades now grinding away at what is hard but necessary to live forever free. By the strength and sacrifices of the creative community fallen, present and for every generation here after to go the distance to overcome all obstacles and guarantee the creative freedom of all humanity for all time. If Humanity can dream forever free, then shall Humanity live forever free!

Yet here we are and we still battle against these self-appointed morally aggrandizing grandstanding people who spend so much time complaining at others that they themselves put great effort to socially isolate from and make dedicated efforts to not listen to for solutions. They do these things instead of rolling up their sleeves, wilfully exiting their moral ivory towers and fighting with pride of the creative community in the trenches of the digital world for the battle to win creative freedom for all of humanity.

Yet these people who know nothing of adversity claim to be the best people to make all the moral rules and would rather find comfort in echo chambers where freedom of speech and and meritocracy dies a slow painful death over fulfilment in doing the needed work that they know in their heart of hearts that must be done to help the common people.

In my experiences fighting with the creative community for decades on every fight worth battling to hell and back for the good of the common people in the creative community and western values and culture all peoples of humanity no matter if I could speak their languages or not I fought with them even when it was hard and a lot died but the fight still lives on through the creative community.

I have fought this battle for the guaranteed creative future of all humanity to dream forever free on every continent and hell even in space for more decades than not in my time alive. So the common people born anywhere at any time could be born free create great works with proper dev tools and for their dreams and their communities to live forever free in this digital world.

With all of that now that I have introduced what I am and what I stand for, with all those things share I say in my heart of hearts will the sincerity I can be rightfully claimed to have I see that things have gotten to the point that one can credibly ask without creative community claims of untruthful behaviour in wondering if these ivory tower developers do any work at all? Or just leech off an overly generous system supported by mostly corporate donations of which they claim to oppose yet they spend the money like nothing counts and all is fine?

Humanity must stand and fight for our freedom, people are made slaves by the wicked if they do not fight for themselves and the others in this world. The strong must protect the weak, the old the sick, all the weary for the strong are all that stands in-between civilization and complete annihilation. This has been the prime foundational truth that holds humanity together for all time. So be kind and help one another. We are all that we have at the end of the day. The true treasure of humanity is humanity itself. If Humanity can dream forever free, then shall Humanity live forever free!



I wrote more but to spare a small mercy upon most; here is the text file if one is interested.

-Matthew Gordon Roulston Ambitionfire 10:42 PM 24th / 01 (January) / 2026