To fight for a good world.

These are all good ideas. Yet there should be legal transparency mechanism and checks and balances / means to make sure the money is not being miss allocated to future proof Godot as a full trust worthy community resource hub. The creative community needs a better result that a Unity 2.0 in ~5-12 years from now. The people are good at heart, and so should their digital and financial ecosystems be good at heart.

If the people who run Godot are directly paid with effectively royalties via the money that is supposed to mainly benefit the creators in the creative community, if the heads of Godot get corrupted by greed / mismanagement; then Godot is at a significant risk of losing community trust and any shred of legitimacy of a long term future. If the community splinters again and gets forked into oblivion everyone loses.

I personally want Godot to have a paid asset store. Yet I know from personal experience what money does to people and it is rare to get people who don't just gravy train off of the creative wonders of the creative community if given the chance. Godot can be great / very helpful yet to this day Godot has not been in a position to say no to $10,000,000+ USD into a Swiss bank account at the cost of the quality of the ecosystem that the creative community needs.

I don't like these talking points. Yet I should represent the negative serious parts of what can go wrong if we only operate on optimism only and thinking things will go well without having legal binding mechanisms to ensure transparency and prevent greed, graft and financial and truss abuse to the creative community.

Someone has to voice these concerns, for if we just act where we trust too much and don't actively ensure proper legal mechanism granted to the creative community, Godot can very easily end up as Unity 2.0. I don't want another Unity implosion so much that I want to make 100% sure to do my part to act now, raise the concerns early and speak openly at the risks and dangers to avoid to help safe guard the creative community.

I personally want a better system than the graft and theft and abuse that happened at Unity asset store. Unity without the corrupt asset store mismanagement would not have the opportunity to abuse the creative community as much as it did. I am busting my ass to make people trust Godot over Unreal and the last thing I want is it to become worse. Personally it is in my best interest to make sure there is a good asset store like itch.io and have more than one, so there is not all eggs in one basket.

I understand this is not fun to read but I should also mention I personally lost thousands of dollars to the abuse at the Unity asset store. Moreover most of all I lost friends and you don't get people back like money. People are the real treasure and we should empower as many people as we can. At the end of the day, we together as one are all that we truly have; the community together as one is the greatest treasure of all humanity. Love conquers all.

In my travels I try to push so hard for MIT and CC0 assets for it helps everyone. A lot of the best artists and creators have a hybrid / freemium model. These great creative people make big sets of matching things and give small pieces as CC0 and grow the user base and grow the creative community. Then if people like that they buy more and it makes a healthy ecosystem of quality first, profit second and everyone wins.

Even if Godot asset store was ~4/5 as good as itch.io is in 2025 that is a massive win for the creative community. Yet likewise if the Godot asset store abuses the creative community and remakes a Unity style bad asset store; then Godot will be very much reduced if not obliterated in the long run. That would make myself very sad.

Thus I wish for a healthy long term future proof Godot asset store. We got to know what we should not do at times in order to make sure we know what we should also do at times. We have to have proper standards on treating people properly in order to grow the creative community. If we eliminated any opportunity of abuse to the creative community this will weed out the bad actors and protect the healthy and regenerative elements of the creative community.

As like a garden you have to protect your most beautiful elements actively from pests. I wish for Godot to be beautiful and long lived. Yet we as a community have to be vigilant of bad actors and find them and stop any bad things. Also it helps to get people to vote and give feedback. Transparency empowers everyone.

Godot should enrich everyone not just a few copyright holders and hand picked staff. Godot should empower the world and we can make the world's best most healthy creative community asset store; yet we must be honest. There are bad actors and we must protect the vulnerable of the community and fight for the digital freedom to not be abused and make sure everyone has a good place to grow and invite more people to grow the creative community.

We can have a great amazing superb asset store for Godot. Yet we got to make sure without a shadow of a doubt once the money flows it is not fueling bad actors. It is mission critically important that the asset store fuels a healthy ecosystem. So that even the most vulnerable of the creative community can trust the systems to help everyone. So that in spite of all the bad places of the world we can still have healthy positive ecosystems to trust and grow the creative community.

I personally desire that Godot can be trusted. Yet trust is earned, not given. There is a long way to go. It is a long road to take care of people, yet the people are worth it; always. So until the creative community is forever free to dream and the dreamers are fully healthy and the community growing and the bad actors actively pursued and chased away; and the corruption actively driven back into the freezing depths of hell and vanquished so completely so as to it only existing in a past that has yet to come. I will keep fighting for people to be forever free, to have the proper transparency and positive creative community values that the good people deserve. A good deed shines ever the brighter in this weary world.

I sincerely want that Godot can be trusted and counted as a respected opportunity giver and safe guardian of the world's creative community. Or at least a good destination of a handful that work together to will into existence a good future we can all enjoy. It is vitally important that not just a handful of people are winners. It is mission critical that everyone in the world can win together as one.

Godot has so much potential yet we got to hold the money aspects to account to ensure the creative community is not abused. If Godot works honestly and values people over money and acts to empower everyone then Godot can have a great future for decades; I want this personally yet we have to fight for a good world. If humanity can dream forever free then shall humanity live forever free.

-Matthew Gordon Roulston Ambitionfire 11:26 PM 29th / 06 (June) / 2025