We are all people at the end of the day, I am Elrond and Kings speech

WithinAmnesia commented on Dec 14, 2025
WithinAmnesia
on Dec 14, 2025
Author

    There is no C# version of this demo and I don't plan doing so, it's a lot of effort converting and maintaining all GDScript to C#. I also don't provide prebuilt C# versions of Godot because it's a hassle to distribute, but you can do a build yourself: https://voxel-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_the_module/#c-support. As for the GDExtension version, C# support has been my main concern for years, but to this day, it remains "unsupported" by Godot: https://voxel-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_the_module/#gdextension-and-c

The last part of the Godot not listening / being unsupportive I skimmed over and mind blanked sorry, I'll do a post here to better respond.

Okay so Redot got made a thing due to the creative community for various reasons wanting a better more reflective / just to make games with engine. I at the start was not the most happy at the creative community split but it sorta worked out and it sorta help each other now like constructive rivals. Rex Engine was made out of a deep love of game engine dev and wanting a 'Godot 5.0' that look like is either deeply delayed or not coming in the next 4-5 years (I advocated for a Godot 5 for years now). Rex devs are a lot more about to get in contact with and to my experience have a genuine love of the other engine devs and listen and are more open (they are a smaller community too so thats a thing). Its like Godot is Germany and Rex / Redot is Switzerland as like Germany makes good stuff for everyone and Switzerland takes that good stuff and makes it better and does its own thing and focused on highest possibly quality engineering.

Also Godot foundation has myself very very worried about a pump and dump / pension fund milk cow for the copyright holders who I have not seen in the creative community trenches in years. I am not listened to for asking where is the 2024 and 2024 finical report on Godot's really ify 'foundation' which is based in the netherlands and is very... if you wanted to have a shady foundation thats where you make them and it has the same legal frame work that other shady 'foundations; have. Redot / Rex foundation is based in USA and has stricter transparency laws which is much better than the netherland shady willy nilly foundation laws.

I say this after having my creative community friends be wiped out from large pump and dump corporate sellout schemes.

I am at this point an old guard game dev and I'm pretty much Elrond in Lord of the Rings looking after creative community and trying to get the corporate enshitification system 'ring' destroyed for it wrecked all the good things I directly remember working on in the golden age of video game development and I want to win back the day and strike a blow that cannot be undone with forever free MIT CC0 creative game making tools to empower the world. As it always should have been from the start.

I am Elrond, Blizzard is the guy Isildur who says 'no I want shiny for meeeeeeeeee sells out to activision / Morgoth / Mordor / The Bad Guys' https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N4xV2RIlMi4
I don't want the memories of the wonders I lived through to die with me; they must be given to all of humanity to be forever free. I struggle against extinction of the greatness that is the birthright of every human being born, dead and alive and yet to live for this generation and all who are to be born forever after. I was at Atlantis before it fell and its not a theory or a story I lived it, I saw it I remember my friends being so betrayed they never returned and some died in obscurity. I don't get to quit there is much work to be done to win back what is rightfully for all of humanity; the power of creativity belongs not to the few gatekeepers bit all of humanity forever free.

I am Gandalf banishing the corruption out of the grandest game ever game with World of Warcraft and the private servers here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NFBXilomkPk I helped found and empower Turtle WoW and pioneered the tools and gave the golden goose to make new content, new instances new raids to the east from the west. Gaming belongs to the people as it always has been and will be so long as we fight for your right to live forever free. If humanity can dream forever free then shall humanity live forever free.

I am King Theoden riding with the people once more and my place is with the people fighting in the trenches and not atop some ivory tower. I come from an ancient line of kings and rulers from Europe and the chiefs of the Red River in Canada who made the rights, fought and died and created western Canada. There is a lot of work to do and as I type with with a fever and broken hand, injured back, legs feet and head I only wish for more ability and more strength to do more work to empower the people. Robert the Bruce King of Scotland united the clans and was crowned King of the realms and won back the restoration of Scottish Throne in his time. Robert the Bruce King of Scotland is my direct Ancestor and the blood of my blood of the Kings of Scotland and of ancient Europe before written records that survive runs through my veins. I am born of the Forbes clan of Scotland and through my ancestors the last War Kings of the western world took to battle and fought with their people and shed their blood together and died in battle to free their people side by side forever free.

I am Aragorn for we must reforge what was broken and wield it for the sake of all human being alive and dead and to win back the Rule of the Free Peoples of this earth today and for forever evermore. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fsbDigj7w5c
I remember the fallen and I swore my oaths to battle and live and remember where they could not. It cost myself everything in my life to be forever free and keep my dignity and give everything to the people. Many have fallen few remember what once was and must be once again. Microsoft has conquered Blizzard and others and holds the chains that bind Minecraft born of a realm of which I too have royal Swedish and Scandinavian blood in my veins. So today I work to strike a blow that cannot be undone and to free the world of the tyranny that kills dreams and holds back the will of the share experience we all belong to in our shared human spirit. We were born to be free but we must fight to keep our rights and today we must fight to keep the tools of creation of our culture, our legacy in these dark uncertain time heading in world wars which threaten the continued existence of western culture that has gone on in strength for over 11,000 years and older than the stones that fail to record their memory and legacy given to us by their strength. Our ancestors did not fight and die for us to live as conquered peoples in our own lands. We are born of greatness but me bust first kill our weakness to birth our greatness. Strike a blow to the largest game franchise MIT forever free and once the code is made and its MIT it de facto is owned by the entire world and with copy and paste down crumble the walls of the tyrants atop their enshitification gatekeeping ivory towers.

I am Samwise the Strong! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sMhY59n7X-Y This is a time to be alive and to be mighty of old and win the day back from the darkness and rally the people to a banner worth fighting and dying for, to be forever free today, tomorrow and every fate there after evermore. Humanity forever free! I ask as Sampson in the holy texts to not ask for the burden to be lessened only to have the power to break what is broken in our failing civilization and the strength to reforge our world anew as it always should be for all of humanity to live forever free. If humanity can dream forever free then shall humanity live forever free!

I am King Buliwyf https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QYQn9jfZjJM This is a time to remember who we are and fight for what we believe, healthy, ill weak or with broken bones we must fight the good fight and win the day all the same. I great leader sees the legend in people and can anyone believe in themselves and become legendary. A great leader see the power in everyone and gives the people a just way of life to bring that power in the people to all of the realm. To live as one culture and win the day for all. If we fall so to does our way of life and forever 1 warrior there are 100's who need our strength for if we fail their line ends with us. If we win God willing we are worthy then with us the whole world is made anew and humanity no longer has to live in chains and dreams of the past and wonders of our civilization can live again. The true treasure of humanity is humanity itself. Hail our ancestors and those who gave us the torch of humanity to live forever free and hold high and be the fire in the darkness to guide humanity out of these dark times and into the life worth living of the birthright we are all born to live forever free; the human spirit we all share in this shared existence together as one living forever free.

We are all people at the end of the day. We live together we die together. We are an unbroken chain stretching from the dawn of time of people who didn't quite know why they were here and had children strong enough to have children of their own. Every human being was at the top of the tree of humanity and leading branch even for the smallest of moments we were all at one time the first hope of the fire humanity that burns in the depths of human souls; the fire of god or the fire of the human spirit. There are many failed branches of humanity that died but we are of the living branch together as one alive in our shared existence and we are we can make things better always. Things can always get better. We must fight and keep fighting. The world being forever free is worth our sacrifices. We have a long history of being free and fighting for our right to live forever free. We have been fighting to be free in western civilization for thousands of years since the time of true War Kings as Alexander the Great: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RlKJDwViNKs

I will share the Man in the Arena by one of the last War Leaders of our time who lead from the front and fought side by side with their people to win the day. Theodore Roosevelt: https://www.theodoreroosevelt.org/content.aspx?page_id=22&club_id=991271&module_id=339364
"It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat." - President Theodore Roosevelt at Sorbonne, Paris, France April 23, 1910.
-Matthew Gordon Roulston Ambitionfire 1:15 PM 14th / 12 (December) / 2025