"Thank you for the information, when do you get more supply and what is it like for importing to Vancouver from China / India for new items? I imported a big metal lathe from Grizzly Industrial tools from Washington State for I could not find new tools online from Canada.It was during the crazy shipping supply chain back log in the pandemic and the Shanghai China via freight ship to LA USA then via freight truck to Vancouver Canada really complicated the order and I had to wait for over 18 months to get the Big Metal Lathe to Sayward delivered. Do you provide shipping / ordering help with freight forwarders from India / China / overseas for big equipment to Canada?

The problem with vertical mills / universal mills is they are about 500-1,000 pounds just too heavy for lift gate service and it really throws a monkey wrench in already sky high truck freight. For example one can buy a 40' shipping container high cube from China / India across the other side of the planet, buy it and have it delivered full of items from a factory loaded and ready for pick up for ~800 USD. Yet in BC we can't even cross a ferry in BC made in Poland for 900-1,000+ CAD if one hauls that said container in bulk with backhauls getting the lowest comercial rate from Vancouver to North Vancouver Island. Something is seriously wrong with Canada's economy right now and things should not be this difficult to run regular business orders.

Is there any help or ways you know how to avoid the freight and shipping issues. Do you offer any import help or commission on using your freight offloading areas? Shipping to Canada is not easy and everyone in China / India would rather I be American apparently for I have to twist their arms to get it into Vancouver yet even then people get killed by our out of control rampant freight and delivery over charging rates. I'm not sure Canada will have much tool and manufacturing demand if all our skilled and talented young and current talent leaves for greener pastures like our doctors and medical staff we trained with Canadian tax payer dollars with over taxed economy as it is in Canada who then left and are never coming back during the pandemic; for why make a 1/3rd of what you could make in USA or EU if you stay in Canada? It is even worse for our manufacturing sector for its practically delinquent and nothing is made in Canada anymore its worse than the exodus out of California. We have no auto brands no ship building yet the largest coastal border to defend in the western world, no missile and drone production yet our future defend requires those two things just to survive against China who built 40 destroyers in 7 years yet in Canada we bought 7 rusted out junk destroyers over 40 years. If nothing happens now to right the ship Canada is done.

I want to make video games and be an artist. I'm 29 I don't know how old you are but you probably lived through better times and know things should be better than this. I like heavy equipment, I like building things but I look around Canada and nothing we should do to pull up our bootstraps and make our own way in life is being done, we are wasting our future for politicians who are lining their donors pockets with Canadian tax payer money and selling out our future to swiss bank accounts. None of these people will build our Navy, airforce, space force military tanks, guns, aircraft, submarine and nuclear facilities we need to exist in the 21st century. I don't want to buy vertical mills and tools but I must for if I don't, a young man of this nation who can build military industrial and civilian heavy equipment and build up the skills over time then if I don't do it then, next to no one will mate. For every 5 people who leave trade professions in the USA (more like 10 in Canada) only 1 young person takes up trades and not for a lifetime or 20 or 10 or even 5 years most likely in and out a flash in the pan, that's why we can't build houses we have no carpenters for they can't buy a house they build in the nation of Canada they are supposed to call home in the land of the most green livable land per capita on the face of the entire world.

When the brick layers can't buy the houses they make that's when economies and nations tumble. Party time is over and I can't retire, my generation, my children and their children cannot get a pension it is a living fund, meaning that money is not stored away it is spent immediately on people who retire today. I am young and I have to support 5 times the older people who live longer than the baby boomers and my generation and the ones after must pay off a per capita dept of over 500,000 USD per person and nearly 2,000,000 USD per tax payer. My children would be born 2 million dollars in debt in this Nation of Canada if nothing is done. I could do drugs, leave Canada abandon my talent, family, community and home but that's not how you do things in Canada. We fight to be free alive or dead through two world wars and everywhere people needed fire in the darkness to charter their course to a future worth living.

Mate we had the 4th largest navy in the world following WW2 yet we can't even build an icebreaker to protect a fraction of our coast. Artists and coders should not be forced to go into manufacturing and politics just to exist when they are 70-80-90 years old and ensure our children grow up free and not in prisons and concentration camps like the minories who resist in China today for 'thought crimes'. That's what is on the line come 2060's 2070's when China gets arms parity to the western world. We will be out gunned 20 to 1 or more even if we unite North America, South America, western europe and the Nato countries if we are forced to fight China in the coming decades. Right now NATO and the western world is ~10% of the world's population with ~70% of the world's arms budget, yet if nothing happens come 2060's-2070's we don't have kids any more in the west and especially Canada the west is projected to be at 3-5-7% of the world's population and at 30-40% of the world's arms budget. We will lose WW3 or WW4 if artists and coders and people of the arts and the softer things in life don't start making heavy equipment, training with guns and arms for land, sea, sky and space to win our future today and for tomorrow and forever after to live forever free with no one above us and no one beneath forever free for our people to live our dreams but we must earn this right with fire, steel and bloodshed as it always has been in the ancestry the western world's civilization.

I don't say this to people who are not in the west for why would they care but if you are in Vancouver you should probably start thinking about our community for if the War in Ukraine and soon the invasion of Taiwan is anything to learn from when war starts its going to be up to us to defend ourselves for the west does not defend others fast and every arms delivery is late 2 years and in NATO we did an audit where we found 80% of the money was not spent on physical hardware but 'services' and of that 20% of physical items less than 9% was spent on bullets, artillery, tanks, ships, aircraft, spacecraft, missiles etc. Canada mate has the worst arms acquisition in the developed world we spent billions of dollars on a boat blue print and we could have bought 10 finished warships for 1 piece of paper, built dry docks in Vancouver, Churchill, Hudson's bay Ontario, re built Halifax ship building but instead we got a single defective ship that does not even work as well as the original it was designed from. We also leaked our multibillion dollar ship design to China for we are spending our unborn future great grand children's money yet we are run by teenagers who are 40-70 years old and never grew to be adults mentally and they have never been forced to pay their fair share through life. Canada is becoming a weak nation if nothing is done, it must change, we must go back to work and rebuild everything we need to exist in this world not to just survive but to thrive.

I know you may not have an interest in these things but if Canada is going to change, tools like yours must be put to use in Canada by Canadians to rebuild a future worth living. If not we won't have a Canada left to call home for it will be invaded, we won't have the guns, missiles, drones, aircraft, ships, tanks, spacecraft to defend ourselves for in ground war in 2 years everything before the war is destroyed or obsolete and one needs to rearm and make new better adapted systems to compete in a war. Or lose the war, the nation, the people, the dreams, hopes and values of one's self, home, family, community and ancestry. You either win big or lose big just ask Poland, Germany, Napoleonic France, the rise and fall of the Netherlands empire, the rise and fall of the Spanish and Portuguese empires, the rise and fall of the British empire and now we are now faced with these realities with the American decline against the rising east.

How can a civilization expect to survive today if its own people can't defend it self if the trenches, airports, docks and arms depots are empty for we cannot pay our own way forward come a world war when just like Australia in WW2 the supply lines are cut and just like my big metal lathe from China our supply lines will be cut and just like the Bronze age collapse and the fall of Troy ~1177 BC no trade, no supply, to armaments, no logistics, no way to continue fighting, then the four horsemen of the apocalypse come, first is Conquest, then War, then Famine and finally Death. It's an ancient warning of how civilizations rise and fall retold from the lands of oldest known civilization of Sumeria that the western world draws its direct ancestry from in antiquity. Also what gets a person, family, community, nation is not what they see coming it's what they don't see coming and the first thing to die in war is the original plan. Henry Ford in WW2 from Ford Motor company was responsible for shortening and winning the greatest human war ever in history by 2 years or more, his company produced 3/4ths of the bombers of the entire war in one shape or another. There were so many bombers coming from the willow run that Germany had less fighter aircraft than USA had heavy bombers so much so that the German heavy industry was bombed into oblivion during day light bomber raids.

Yet how the mighty have fallen indeed. 100 years ago Detroit was a bastion of the western civilizations and a wonder to behold, yet today the factories are silent, the houses crumble and 100 years ago across over to the other ocean seaboard toward the mighty Rocky Mountains onwards to California in San Francisco they were the world's greatest engineers, scientist and brightest minds of the world flocked to the west coast and wonders of engineering were designed and built all deployed all the way to every corner of the earth and onto the moon and beyond our solar system. Yet today the home of the golden gate bridge cannot build a bridge a fraction of the size even with 10 times the population and resources it had before, an order of magnitude and even when they did the bridge span was made in china with chinese steel and chinese engineers. The cement poured was not even done properly and had to be redon at 10 times the budget. The place where the mighty rockies were conquered by steel, sweet and sheer force of will and brilliance of mind that connected a continent with rail now less than 100 years later cannot even in the richest land per capita in the world make a train to connect 2 cities through farmlands flatter than the surface of an egg.

Yet today LA burns to the ground for they were so weak a people they cut the fire department to its knees and drained the fire hydrants dry and hired people who could not save their own rear end in a house fire let alone a child, woman or man they let those failures of wasted potential and people of weakness and incompetence run the fire departments in California when for decades the state has had record forest fires that burned the forests into black hellscapes. Water bombers from Quebec flew in across from the other side of the continent to do the work that people who only had to get out of bed should have done half a century ago yet failed themselves, their family their community their people and their nation and the nations who depend on NATO to defend their freedom, future and way of life, they look to the greatest military alliance in the world that has ever been, the western world looks for guidance in times of trouble we are now facing today and more in the near future and greatest in the decades to come. The world, our allies and enemies look to the richest nation in the world and in the richest state of the richest nation in human history those people we elected in the west cannot even pump near-infinite supplies of water from the damn ocean to save millions of people's future because a stupid fish, broken promises, failed policies and degeneration of the gifts given to them hard fought by their ancestors and they would rather protect their virtue signing while their city burns to the ground from the hills to the ocean than to save children from burning to death right outside their backyard. That is our community, those are our families, peoples and futures we are in this together united or divided a people must take care of their own through thick and thin no matter the cost, no matter the price for if you lose your future you lose your past, present and any hope of the continuation of our shared values, culture and way of life.

What has the west come to? What have we come to? If we cannot even provide the basic fundamental means to survive day to day for our people in their greatest time of need, not even in war, not in famine nor drought nor plague; nigh yet in peace and abundance the world has never known. Yet then how as we a people of this once mighty western civilization are to provide in times of potentially the greatest world war, near insurmountable odds, strife within and without, shortages and strains in everything from, food, water housing, gas, fuel, bullets, artillery, boats, planes, trains, automobiles and spacecraft and beyond needed to ensure the future existence for ourselves, our family, our community and the nations, and the peoples and civilizations that look to us for help, look to us to defend their values, cultures, freedoms and way of life? What do we do to rise to be as the mighty of old and win our future, destiny, way of life and will into existence a civilization that provides the future for our children and forever after their descents to always be forever free?"
[from:	Matthew Roulston <mattwow3@gmail.com>
to:	Bell Machinery Ltd <bellmac2@telus.net>
date:	Jan 14, 2025, 1:27 PM
subject:	Re: Used Vertical Mill
mailed-by:	gmail.com]
-Matthew Gordon Roulston Ambitionfire 1:29 PM 14th / 01 (January) / 2025
