art is cool.

Matthew
I wonder though...

Matthew — Today at 18:05
this
[18:06]
I am trying to feel something
[18:07]
the mind almost feels frozen or something far away to see in the distance.
[18:07]
what could be
[18:08]
a world away from the pain and darkness.
[18:08]
it is so hard to see, like gazing into the sun from stepping out of the infinite darkness.

Pohnani — Today at 18:08
—I’m very stagnant in my life right now

Matthew — Today at 18:09
I'm trying to hold back the negativity and quick little comments.
[18:09]
I feel something

Pohnani — Today at 18:11
Might as well say them lol

Matthew — Today at 18:24
A heat so great it burns away the pains and sorrows of the past, a feeling of a life beyond the anguish of living and a feeling of purpose to avenge all of the mishaps and mistakes made along the way and a tomorrow to make the fallen comrades proud to see you there above the pain and the despair. A feeling as if the soul flies above the clouds so high that even god has to look to the sky and wince at the sight of yourself so high into the sky acrested upon the sun basking in the light of dreams and love that breaks the shadows infinity upon the endless shores of all eternity. A place where beauty calls home and a feeling of belonging even among most travel worn of feet and hands worn to the bone. A place harmony of harmonies of harmonies. A place where all good deeds are remembered and all dreams birthed; a place of tranquillity beyond the stillness of the quiet places of the world and far beyond evermore. An overflowing feeling of forgiveness and tasks yet to be done. The fire knows no end nor does the fire know its beginning. An infinite expanse of potential and glory of glories of glories. In this place a grace is felt unlike no other, it strikes right through your entire being and it lifts your existence beyond where your senses could have ever felt, you rise as you were once a new born child to meet existence as you drew your first breath and in this place a feeling is felt beyond any shadow of a doubt. Love conquers all. (edited)

Pohnani — Today at 18:29
I’m surprised you aren’t a writer or maybe you are just in your own safety but don’t use it for the “public”

Matthew — Today at 18:30
I was remembering.
[18:30]
A past feeling.

Pohnani — Today at 18:30
Do you remember what the feeling was from
[18:31]
Like that was very beautiful writing

Matthew — Today at 18:34
I was dead. Or dying or something akin to being slipping off the razor's edge of oblivion.
[18:35]
I drowned when I was very young I think. I was younger than 13 and I have a fuzzy memory of extraordinary events and or moments when I was 13 as well. I have different memories of that time. (edited)
[18:36]
I think my father brought myself back to life when I was pulled out of the river.
[18:37]
Also apparently I could have drank antifreeze when I was toddler. My guts were pupped with a hose down my throat.
[18:38]
I remember being out of my body as a small child in the cold parts of the year very ill with pneumonia more than once.
[18:38]
I think I woke up out of a house fire as well. I cannot tell if it was dream or a memory any more. It seems ethereal. (edited)
[18:40]
Same with freezing when I was 12 or 13 and I had no tracks in the snow leading back to my room after collapsing in the snow and no one was there at the house.
[18:41]
Or the who whispered into my ear in a lonely forest as I took a pee and I turned around and a giant snag of a tree top fell over myself and the trunk land where I was half a second before and I turned into the gaps of the branches.
[18:43]
Or the native chief forest looking at myself on the only path dead ahead of myself not so 30-40 feet away beyond where the shadows met the sun and disappeared without a sound in under a second in an area full of thick brush where I was one the only muddy straight trail road. (edited)
[18:43]
it feels off.
[18:44]
I am missing something important and or significant.
[18:44]
the wind?
[18:44]
time?
[18:45]
ah yeah, that 'dream'.
[18:46]
or dreams
[18:46]
rather
[18:46]
those are a bit difficult to tell.
[18:46]
properly and emotionally.
[18:47]
anyway

Matthew
A heat so great it burns away the pains and sorrows of the past, a feeling of a life beyond the anguish of living and a feeling of purpose to avenge all of the mishaps and mistakes made along the way and a tomorrow to make the fallen comrades proud to see you there above the pain and the despair. A feeling as if the soul flies above the clouds so high that even god has to look to the sky and wince at the sight of yourself so high into the sky acrested upon the sun basking in the light of dreams and love that breaks the shadows infinity upon the endless shores of all eternity. A place where beauty calls home and a feeling of belonging even among most travel worn of feet and hands worn to the bone. A place harmony of harmonies of harmonies. A place where all good deeds are remembered and all dreams birthed; a place of tranquillity beyond the stillness of the quiet places of the world and far beyond evermore. An overflowing feeling of forgiveness and tasks yet to be done. The fire knows no end nor does the fire know its beginning. An infinite expanse of potential and glory of glories of glories. In this place a grace is felt unlike no other, it strikes right through your entire being and it lifts your existence beyond where your senses could have ever felt, you rise as you were once a new born child to meet existence as you drew your first breath and in this place a feeling is felt beyond any shadow of a doubt. Love conquers all. (edited)

Matthew — Today at 18:48
it was an Ashley happy thought. that 'feeling' was a sort of staircase or portrait frame or some kind of guide to look beyond from. A sort of emotional perspective.

Pohnani — Today at 18:55
Well it definitely makes me think
[18:57]
About fire
[18:57]
—I will set it all aflame
[18:57]
What I first thought

Matthew — Today at 19:06
I see trees and smile, twirling skin up close and a feeling of bliss. As if the mountain has been climbed and mastery of destiny has been obtained at long last. A quiet breeze of remembrance fills the atmosphere of thought as the pair of eyes joined forever by destiny gaze beyond towards the horizon. A sun rises and a new dawn breaks. A feeling of hope fills the air and the clouds dance upon the light filling the heavens above. A trust at last and a future of growth and possibility. A happiness swelling up from the soul that flows out in dance and silly song. Twirling about alas without a care, fall to a soft bed of grass, see the sun glisten upon the diamonds of dew in the meadow flowers waking upon amongst the tall grass. A breath of flowers and a soothing peace that flows into the soul past far beyond the headwaters of paradise. Dream alive at long last, at-one-ment. (edited)
[19:10]
I am haunted deeply ever so. By a sense and or a feeling or even an instinct of what could be. (edited)

Pohnani — Today at 19:10
Hmm

Matthew — Today at 19:14
Ashley.

Pohnani — Today at 19:16
Yes

Matthew — Today at 19:21
Endure.
[19:21]
that was a bit of a trip

Pohnani — Today at 19:22
Okay so more pain
[19:24]
Set this well rooted tree aflame
[19:26]
Because it is not growing towards paradise
[19:27]
It’s like started growing to the far left and is like now ran into a wall and still growing but trying to push through the wall and break through it —but that’s stupid
[19:28]
And the wall causes the branches to be a mess

Matthew — Today at 19:28
I went to try and find an answer by 'unthinking', relaxing and letting the visions come like a dream and I kept focusing on this chakara / metal circle thing rolling around this arm / shoulder and letting it go where it went to see what I could see about myself in my places where I felt I could do nothing in my past but become nothing and when I was beat down, I was struggling to stay in the trance and all theses natives and africans were dancing and like inca and and mayans and dancing and people and women and sex and marriage and the dessert at night and farming and terror and peace and I was losing the relax and I was trying to find what I would say in power in the future to my past self like to find what I could say to you now in this in-fluxing state your life is in now a sort of cross roads. While I was 'waking up' / 'losing the looseness' / relax / vision / dream state , the little version of myself sort of reached out and as I was flying / being pulled back it said to myself with a sort of sombre smile like it knew and said "Endure". Then I felt like what I needed to say and typed it. Endure. (edited)
[19:31]
So I suppose kinda, Ashley. Endure. (edited)

Pohnani — Today at 19:34
That is what I have been trying to do for myself but in way less simpler terms but needs to be more
[19:34]
Different way?
[19:34]
Mor meaningful?

Matthew — Today at 19:34
hmmn

Pohnani — Today at 19:34
Or more drastic?

Matthew
I see trees and smile, twirling skin up close and a feeling of bliss. As if the mountain has been climbed and mastery of destiny has been obtained at long last. A quiet breeze of remembrance fills the atmosphere of thought as the pair of eyes joined forever by destiny gaze beyond towards the horizon. A sun rises and a new dawn breaks. A feeling of hope fills the air and the clouds dance upon the light filling the heavens above. A trust at last and a future of growth and possibility. A happiness swelling up from the soul that flows out in dance and silly song. Twirling about alas without a care, fall to a soft bed of grass, see the sun glisten upon the diamonds of dew in the meadow flowers waking upon amongst the tall grass. A breath of flowers and a soothing peace that flows into the soul past far beyond the headwaters of paradise. Dream alive at long last, at-one-ment. (edited)

Matthew — Today at 19:34
I am trying to figure out what this is kinda.

Pohnani — Today at 19:35
Harder? Or more forgiving
[19:35]
I feel —burn myself to crisp

Matthew — Today at 19:35
Love... yet like
[19:36]
your pot is too small or something

Pohnani — Today at 19:37
Yeah man that bitch is full 
[19:38]
now I’m being the jackass while you r being serious —sorry

Matthew — Today at 19:45
the tree lady is / you are / the in focus perspective character breaking the pot, the tree is walking toward the water on a hot day, the shadows of the past are behind you and your leaves are burning yet you see a little bit of water in the dry place in front of where you tread. You stumble, the cracked pot breaks, the try cries and thrashes it limbs about puts root into where it fell they burn and sorrow erupts and turns to its back to face the sun and its demise. A harry beast with big feet grabs the defeated outstretched limb, pulls the tree lady with a happy little bird song chirp and a bounce in the step towards the water fountain full of birds and soothing shade, the tree lady vibrates and cries down into the water near the fountain, turns with a face drenched with fountain water and roots sinking deep into the ground, a smily grin is given back by the harry beast, his head in front of the sun, his face dark, he turns towards the heat and dry and a club above the shoulder and covers his brow with a raised hand to search the sun baked waste land for more sorry souls, still bouncing in step and walking into the distance, looking about, twirling his club like a cane of a gentleman until sand storms engulf the faint distant figure and disappears into the distance. A bird chirps and smile returns to the tree lady.

All that is like less than a sec or two flash (edited)

Matthew
the tree lady is / you are / the in focus perspective character breaking the pot, the tree is walking toward the water on a hot day, the shadows of the past are behind you and your leaves are burning yet you see a little bit of water in the dry place in front of where you tread. You stumble, the cracked pot breaks, the try cries and thrashes it limbs about puts root into where it fell they burn and sorrow erupts and turns to its back to face the sun and its demise. A harry beast with big feet grabs the defeated outstretched limb, pulls the tree lady with a happy little bird song chirp and a bounce in the step towards the water fountain full of birds and soothing shade, the tree lady vibrates and cries down into the water near the fountain, turns with a face drenched with fountain water and roots sinking deep into the ground, a smily grin is given back by the harry beast, his head in front of the sun, his face dark, he turns towards the heat and dry and a club above the shoulder and covers his brow with a raised hand to search the sun baked waste land for more sorry souls, still bouncing in step and walking into the distance, looking about, twirling his club like a cane of a gentleman until sand storms engulf the faint distant figure and disappears into the distance. A bird chirps and smile returns to the tree lady.  All that is like less than a sec or two flash (edited)

Matthew — Today at 19:49
Its like how do I put that to words like a sentence?
[19:51]
That took a while to type but like I hope I can translate my ~'head visions' into text for an example of how I find what I say at times. I really struggle for answers at times. I am like ehhhh.... words? XD (edited)

Matthew
Love... yet like

Matthew — Today at 19:52
I still have not got my point across, like my first one.

@Pohnani
Dreams of my child hood got crushed and after that not did not dream to much

Matthew — Today at 19:53
all of this stuff
[19:53]
I have these like feelings
[19:53]
I am trying to express.
[19:54]
I feel like I am failing to communicate how I feel or something.

Pohnani — Today at 19:55
Pictures?

Matthew — Today at 19:55
Themes of Ashley. Love. Potential. Pain. Time. Discovery.

Pohnani — Today at 19:55
Ok

Matthew — Today at 19:56
Its all like a bunch of movies or something flying around in my mind.
[19:57]
It is so easy to say a lot of nothing but so hard to say a tiny amount about something real.
[19:58]
Your Potential.
[19:58]
Undervalued.
[19:59]
Drowning in Chaos.
[20:00]
Seeds that cannot grow or like not in the place to grow them... its so hazy.
[20:01]
that fucking kitchen uhg!
[20:02]
its like think about ashley.. kitchen!.. no, ashley!, fuck you heres a kitchen, I said ashley! kItcHeN... x.X (edited)
[20:02]
its my minds version of your houses kitchen

Pohnani — Today at 20:03
Is this suppose to be some kind of sexist joke?
[20:03]


Matthew — Today at 20:04
its like a fucked up melted 50's / my sister "Sara" 's old kitchen from gabriola mix with the old sayward kitch from the torn out trailer and like maybe someother kitchens in there.

Pohnani — Today at 20:04
Actually I’m literally in the kitchen

Matthew — Today at 20:04
I'm trying to see other shit but its like this stupid fucking kitchen keep popping up .....

Pohnani — Today at 20:04
I could just take a photo of my real kitchen

Matthew — Today at 20:04
k
[20:05]
is it like white / grey / teal with red somewhere?
[20:05]
or like aqua or .. eh tiled?
[20:05]
metal sink?
[20:05]
metal scrub thing?

Pohnani — Today at 20:05


Matthew — Today at 20:06
its a different angle
[20:06]
to the left is there an opening or something?

@Pohnani
Click to see attachment

Matthew — Today at 20:08
thanks though

Pohnani — Today at 20:16
Him not really just more counter top and combiners
[20:16]
Cabinets
[20:16]
Could be my old house kitchen at parents
[20:16]
But like you never saw that lol
[20:19]
Also really appreciate you looking DEEP within yourself to try and tell me what you see
[20:19]
Your mind is like a crystal ball 
[20:20]
I’m still pondering on the beast one
[20:22]
—cracked pot is from elden ring
[20:22]
But also how did the tree stumble
[20:22]
Or why did it
[20:22]
Was it not paying attention?
[20:22]
Was something there
[20:22]
Was I meant to fall?
[20:22]
Test?
[20:22]
But failed?
[20:23]
It feels nieve and stupid

Matthew — Today at 20:23
k my or a hand went through the wall like goo trying to grab something near a stove, its like stone kinda cold. A knife comes out and then a scream a slash at the air turning behind and drop the knife it clatters cup hands in face start crying, buckle to the knees its a women buckled over crying in the shower now, now curled up on the side of the bed with like desk behind it, now its the eyes, they are cold and lost. they are sleepy, a cheeky peck on the forehead and she is alert a bit stunned looks around, is disappointed, goes back to rest, curls in the blankets more, thinks about love, feels sad, seeing and dreams of stars wakes up, its like dark / grey, is like fuuu... in the shower sit squatting now angry and sad with face / mouth in crossed arms looking out of the shower into thin air feeling a mood. sits down a bit, springs back up, jiggles around a bit, throws towel / clothes on in a blur. cars. a dead pan look. the phone is solid stone but tears make it revert back to a 'state'(?) looks back up from behind car wheel, is in office, a black phone with shadows pouring out and a monitor that is black with fog(?) pouring our like mist. sitting in chair buries head into desk / knees its in the shower now with tears and a frustrated lady being mad at the shampoo / soap bottle with a squeeze, it feels cold. looks at the viewer, eats it and its dark with a lady bare ass walking on water in the sunset towards a setting sun from behind and melts into the sun. the viewer sinks into the water its all tears and bubbles of memories of thousands of heart aches all flying at once a drowning sound a head blasting out of a tub in a white bath room I have boobs all of a sudden and a bush (?) I look to the foggy mirror and the face is a shadow I open the cabinet and its a hand that is depressed(?) and goes away awkwardly with nothing no give. I shut the cabinet and its back to sad shower days all flashing at once getting older but feeling the same. the sun? a smile? a laugh?hmn (edited)
[20:27]
idk. I think my brain just operates visually / feels stuff.

Pohnani — Today at 20:28
Okay so these r like flash images

Matthew — Today at 20:29
yeah like a movie happening in like 1-2 seconds

Pohnani — Today at 20:29
In like short term easy mode can you make a list of what you see

Matthew — Today at 20:30
its like visual feeling or something, like asking a question follow diligently to where er it takes you whether you understand or not you value the experience sorta kinda.
[20:31]
I get so many of them I just get overwhelmed / flow flowed / flooded XD

Matthew
k my or a hand went through the wall like goo trying to grab something near a stove, its like stone kinda cold. A knife comes out and then a scream a slash at the air turning behind and drop the knife it clatters cup hands in face start crying, buckle to the knees its a women buckled over crying in the shower now, now curled up on the side of the bed with like desk behind it, now its the eyes, they are cold and lost. they are sleepy, a cheeky peck on the forehead and she is alert a bit stunned looks around, is disappointed, goes back to rest, curls in the blankets more, thinks about love, feels sad, seeing and dreams of stars wakes up, its like dark / grey, is like fuuu... in the shower sit squatting now angry and sad with face / mouth in crossed arms looking out of the shower into thin air feeling a mood. sits down a bit, springs back up, jiggles around a bit, throws towel / clothes on in a blur. cars. a dead pan look. the phone is solid stone but tears make it revert back to a 'state'(?) looks back up from behind car wheel, is in office, a black phone with shadows pouring out and a monitor that is black with fog(?) pouring our like mist. sitting in chair buries head into desk / knees its in the shower now with tears and a frustrated lady being mad at the shampoo / soap bottle with a squeeze, it feels cold. looks at the viewer, eats it and its dark with a lady bare ass walking on water in the sunset towards a setting sun from behind and melts into the sun. the viewer sinks into the water its all tears and bubbles of memories of thousands of heart aches all flying at once a drowning sound a head blasting out of a tub in a white bath room I have boobs all of a sudden and a bush (?) I look to the foggy mirror and the face is a shadow I open the cabinet and its a hand that is depressed(?) and goes away awkwardly with nothing no give. I shut the cabinet and its back to sad shower days all flashing at once getting older but feeling the same. the sun? a smile? a laugh?hmn (edited)

Matthew — Today at 20:31
so that was the kitchen tangent or something?
-Matthew Gordon Roulston 8:33 PM 10th / 08th (August) / 2022 (talking with Ashley Corbin)